Version 1.1.6 (03.03.2011)
==========================

#.  (DSBE) Der Button "Auskunftsblatt" ist provisorisch raus.

Upgrade instructions
--------------------

- changes in your local :xfile:`settings.py`

  - Replace the line

    ::

      from lino.demos.dsbe.settings import *
    
    by
    
    ::
    
      from lino.sites.dsbe.settings import *
      
  - Replace the settings
  
    ::
      
      LANGUAGE_CODE = "de"
      BABEL_LANGS = ['fr','en']
      
    by
      
    ::
      
      LANGUAGE_CODE = "de"
      LANGUAGES = language_choices('de','fr','en')

    
  


- Go to your local directory::

    cd /usr/local/django/myproject
    
- Stop application services::

    ./stop
    
- Update the source code::

    ./pull
    python manage.py test dsbe
    
  Note: 
  For some apps the tests are currently broken. 
  That's just because we didn't yet find time to maintain them.
  We're working on it.

Database changes
----------------


Database migration needed because of the following changes.
See also :doc:`/admin/datamig` for general info.


- New field :attr:`lino.modlib.properties.PropType.default_value`
- :class:`lino.utils.babel.BabelCharField` was nullable by mistake
- New Field :attr:`lino.mixins.addressable.Adressable.addr1`

- Field contacts.Company.is_courseprovider is now virtual.
  In your .dpy dump, add one new line::

    CourseProvider = resolve_model("dsbe.CourseProvider")
    
  and change `create_contacts_company` as follows::
  
    def create_contacts_company(name,...,hourly_rate,is_courseprovider):
        if is_courseprovider:
            cl = CourseProvider
        else:
            cl = Company
        return cl(name=name,...,hourly_rate=hourly_rate)

- Models auth.Permission, auth.Group and auth.Message no longer exist. 
  If there happen to be data in those tables, it can be dropped.
  Uncomment the following lines in the .dpy dump::

  #Permission = resolve_model("auth.Permission")
  #Group = resolve_model("auth.Group")
  #Message = resolve_model("auth.Message")
  

Nach dem Upgrade
----------------

#.  (DSBE) In bestehenden Dokumentvorlagen (betroffen sind nur die beiden Verträge) 
    muss "address" durch "address_location" ersetzt werden.
    Siehe :blogref:`20110302`

#. (DSBE) In your templates, replace `tr()` by `babelattr()`.
   ``tr`` is now an alias for :func:`lino.utils.babel.babelitem`.












