.. include:: /../docs/shared/include/defs.rst
.. _lino.changes.2018:

====================
Changes 2018 in Lino
====================


.. contents::
  :local:

December
========

Fixed :ticket:`2710` in :mod:`lino.modlib.extjs`  Checking date change. When
:attr:`lino.modlib.system.SiteConfig.next_partner_id` was inadvertently set to
the id of an existing Company, creating a Person caused Lino to overwrite the
data of the company instead of noticing the problem.

(20181226) Removed the pisa build method for printable documents. :ref:`cosi`
now uses :mod:`lino_xl.lib.weasyprint` as the default build method.

Released :ref:`cosi` 18.12.1

(20181225) Installing :ref:`cosi` with the pip command now works with Python3
as described in :ref:`user.install`.


.. _lino.18.12.4:

2018-12-18
==========

Released version 18.12.5.

Lino was not yet installable using pip under Python 3. Now it is (hopefully).

A new command-line option ``--quick`` has been added to :xfile:`restore.py`.
The idea was that calling :meth:`Model.full_clean` on every restored database
row might make things very slow. This was used to try :ticket:`2755` on the
field. First tests on real data indicate that it doesn't give very much.


.. _lino.18.12.2:

2018-12-13
==========

Released Lino 18.12.2

The new :class:`lino.modlib.summaries.Summarized` mixin didn't yet update its
fields during :manage:`checkdata`. And I had no pangs of conscience to
completely review the API at that occasion: Summarizable becomes Summarized,
Summary becomes MonthlySlaveSummary, a new attribute :attr:`delete_them_all
<lino.modlib.summaries.Summarized.delete_them_all>` to make sure the developer
knows what it means.

:func:`lino.utils.jsgen.py2js` now has a keyword argument "compact" that
defaults to True. Because the default behaviour of py2js returns a massive
1-line response which makes it almost impossible to find where an issue in the
json is if there is some problem. In the react renderer im having it using the
:attr:`lino.core.site.Site.is_demo_site` value to determine if it wants to have
it be compact or not.


.. _lino.18.12.1:

2018-12-12
==========

Released version 18.12.1.

- :ticket:`2745` (Summaries without master) caused some changes in
  :mod:`lino.modlib.summaries`:

  Added a new type of summary: a
  :class:`lino.modlib.summaries.Summarizable`. Models inheriting this have a
  lightning button to the ticket and makes the summary fields get updated during
  :manage:`computesummaries`, but unlike it subclasses the objects are not
  considered temporary data (i.e. not being deleted during
  :manage:`computesummaries`.

  Actions for updating summaries now have a "∑" as button_text instead of a
  'lightning' icon.

  First usage example is :class:`lino_noi.lib.tickets.Ticket` which now shows
  the total work time (one sum per reporting type) of a ticket.

  The summary panel of SessionsByTicket no longer has a ▶ button for starting a
  session from ticket. Because the same button exists already in the workflow
  buttons where it is more intelligent because the ▶ cheanges to ■ when the
  user has an open session on this ticket.

- :ticket:`2744` (How to use locally injected fields in a layout) : new method
  :meth:`lino.core.model.Model.get_layout_aliases`.

- Fixed an unreported bug: the :manage:`checksummary` task was maybe not being run daily
  by :manage:`linod`.

- A solution for :ticket:`2746`.
  The virtual field :attr:`lino.core.model.Model.overview` was being used for two different things: (1) in
  detail layouts to create customizable "overview panels" and (2) in table layouts
  to create a "clickable description", functionally equivalent to double clicking
  on the row.

  The latter use should now be done with the new virtual field
  :attr:`lino.core.model.Model.detail_link` whose verbose_name is automatically
  set to the model's verbose_name. This is done during startup and probably you
  cannot override this.

  The :attr:`lino.core.model.Model.overview` field no longer has a
  verbose_name, so application code no longer needs to set it explicitly to
  None using :func:`dd.update_field`.


.. _lino.18.12.0:

2018-12-11
==========

Released version 18.12.0

We are still working on :ticket:`2741` (Have book test pass with PyPI version
of lino and lino_xl).

.. _lino.18.11.0:

2018-12-10
==========

Released version 18.11.0

The default value for :attr:`verbose_name_plural
<lino.core.workflows.Workflow.verbose_name_plural>` of a
:class:`lino.core.workflows.Workflow` is now more intelligent: if the workflow
is being used on a single model (which is the case for most workflows), the
text is now "{} states" where {} is the model's verbose name.

:meth:`lino.utils.memo.Parser.register_django_model` now says an understandable
error message "Duplicate renderer for %s" when an application tries to redefine
another renderer on the same model.

:mod:`lino.modlib.uploads` : the summary of AreaUploads now supports being
shown in a grid.  It shows contant as a single paragraph (instead of an UL and
adds an action for opening the salve table in a separate window.


November 2018
=============

- :ticket:`2682` Optionally allow dashboard items with no data to display
- :ticket:`2670` Leaving a combobox before its store is loaded
- :ticket:`2668` Grid keyboard nav optimizations
- :ticket:`2660` Configure the choices of a TimeField
- :ticket:`2648` Show toolbar list actions in display_type "html"
- :ticket:`2646` Cell cursor jumps to home after inserting a line
- :ticket:`2644` Show current state's button_text in workflow_buttons
- :ticket:`2632` Hovering over the column header of a grid doesn't display the help_text

- :ticket:`2497` Comboboxes sometimes show the value instead of the text
  (:ticket:`2628` ForeignKey fields are not rendered correctly when detail loads
  first time)

- :ticket:`2623` Inconsistent meaning of Ctrl-S and Enter
- :ticket:`2596` Search field is disabled by loadmask
- :ticket:`2577` Row-level edit locking
- :ticket:`2544` SiteSearch fails when it finds a name containing "&"


.. _v18.9:
.. _lino.18.10:

2018-10-30
==========

Database changes

- Subclasses of :class:`lino.mixins.refs.Referrable` now always have
  `max_length=200`.

Internal changes:

- release tags in 18.8 were missing in the git repo because atelier
  did not yet push them.

- New model mixin :class:`lino.mixins.refs.StructuredReferrable`.

- New model mixin :class:`lino.modlib.users.UserPlan`.

- plain html tables now use ``class="text-cell"`` instead of a
  hard-coded set of attributes  ``align="left"``.

- The :meth:`lino.core.renderer.HtmlRenderer.table2story` method now
  yields a sequence of elements instead of returning a single one.

- We have a new method :meth:`lino.core.requests.BaseRequest.show_story`
  which is used in the template for the report
  (:xfile:`ledger/Report/default.weazy.html`).

- in :mod:`lino.api.doctest`, show_sql_queries and show_sql_summary no
  longer call reset_sql_queries.

- we continued to improve the documentation

- :func:`lino.api.doctest.show_sql_summary` now supports INSERT INTO
  and DELETE FROM statements. It now uses `sqlparse
  <https://sqlparse.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`__.


.. _v18.8:

2018-08-31
============

Version 18.8 was the first release for which pip install worked.  At least
under Python 2.

Released packages: :mod:`lino`, :mod:`lino_xl`, :mod:`lino_cosi`,
:mod:`lino_noi` , :mod:`lino_tera`, :mod:`lino_amici`,
:mod:`lino_avanti`, :mod:`lino_welfare`, :mod:`lino_vilma`,
:mod:`lino_care`.

There were many changes... we just didn't collect descriptions of them yet.

- 20180521 Fixed :ticket:`2393` (Wrong error message when no eid card
  found)

- 20180522 Fixed :ticket:`2395` (Unknown callback
  -9223363281463807000).

