20130111
========

Hosting multiple Lino sites
---------------------------

Before doing an upgrade in Eupen I'd like to do it on lino-framework.org, 
and before *that* I'd like to run more tests because recently there were some 
problems related to certain demo fixtures not working in certain 
language configurations.
And I had some ideas about how to automate these tests.
New documentation page :doc:`/admin/local_lino`.
These things are good to solve before a first partner 
gets started with Lino mass hosting.

- :meth:`lino.Lino.__init__` no longer hardcodedly tries to 
  import a `sitecustomize_lino` module::

        try:
            from sitecustomize_lino import on_init
        except ImportError:
            pass
        else:
            on_init(self)

- In :class:`lino.Lino`, renamed the site attribute `settings_dict` to 
  :attr:`<django_settings> lino.Lino.django_settings`.
  
- New management command `initdb_demo <lino.management.commands.initdb_demo>`
  and new Lino setting :attr:`demo_fixtures <lino.Lino.demo_fixtures>`.
  

Cannot re-upload to PyPI
------------------------

Here is how I do (or rather would like to do) my releases:
  
  #.  upload a tarball to PyPI
  #.  download and install that tarball on a "guinea pig" production site 
  #.  if the guinea pig installation reveals bugs which don't require a database migration,
      fix these bugs, rebuild and **re-upload** the tarball, return to item 2.
  #.  have the pre-released version run at the guinea pig site for some time (usually one workday) 
  #.  announce the new version on PyPI and increase the version number in the development trunk
      

Is it possible to use the distutils `setup.py upload` command several times for 
the same version?

Until now I always did the following when releasing ::

  python setup.py register sdist --formats=gztar,zip upload
  
Can I **upload** a version without previously **registering** it?
Answer: Yes (looks as if **upload** silently calls **register**)

.. code-block:: bash

  $ python setup.py sdist --formats=gztar,zip upload
  running sdist
  running egg_info
  writing lino.egg-info\PKG-INFO
  writing top-level names to lino.egg-info\top_level.txt
  writing dependency_links to lino.egg-info\dependency_links.txt
  reading manifest file 'lino.egg-info\SOURCES.txt'
  reading manifest template 'MANIFEST.in'  
  (...)
  adding 'lino-1.5.3\tests\misc\choices.py'
  adding 'lino-1.5.3\tests\misc\diag.py'
  removing 'lino-1.5.3' (and everything under it)
  running upload
  Submitting dist\lino-1.5.3.tar.gz to http://pypi.python.org/pypi
  Server response (200): OK
  Submitting dist\lino-1.5.3.zip to http://pypi.python.org/pypi
  Server response (200): OK
  
But can I cannot re-upload a previously uploaded version:

.. code-block:: bash

  $ python setup.py sdist --formats=gztar,zip upload
  running sdist
  running egg_info
  ...
  adding 'lino-1.5.3\tests\misc\diag.py'
  removing 'lino-1.5.3' (and everything under it)
  running upload
  Submitting dist\lino-1.5.3.tar.gz to http://pypi.python.org/pypi
  Upload failed (400): A file named "lino-1.5.3.tar.gz" already exists for  lino-1.5.3. To fix problems with that file you should create a new
   release.
  Submitting dist\lino-1.5.3.zip to http://pypi.python.org/pypi
  Upload failed (400): A file named "lino-1.5.3.zip" already exists for  lino-1.5.3. To fix problems with that file you should create a new re
  lease.

Of course I could fire up a browser, 
use PyPI's web interface and delete the files before 
somebody else could download them.

The problem is the same when using `testpypi`.

The only workaround is to

#. build a tarball (``sdist``) **without** ``upload``
#. upload it to some unofficial download site 
   (currently I use `/dl <../../dl>`__)
#. download and install that tarball to the guinea pig
#. use this for testing at the guinea pig
#. make a last definitive ``sdist`` **with** ``upload`` 
   to PyPI when the guinea pig tests passed.

The only problem with this workaround is that I usually **forget** 
this last step.
But to be honest, that's only because there are no more Lino production users 
than the one who serves as guinea pig.

