20130112
========

Miscellaneous
-------------

- Updated :mod:`lino.test_apps.20121124` because 
  :djangoticket:`19360`(annotate the sum of related TimeField)
  has been closed.
  
- The :mod:`lino.modlib.countries.fixtures.be` fixture no longer
  loads the Belgian cities defined 
  in :mod:`few_cities <lino.modlib.countries.fixtures.few_cities>`.
  This is because now that City is BabelNamed it is more complex to detect 
  whether a City aready has been created or not.

Blogging with Sphinx
--------------------

Today I discovered `Tinkerer <http://www.tinkerer.me>`__,
a system to write static blogs using Sphinx.

Tinkerer is really great, 
but has a fundamental problem for me:  
it requires me to 
think of the title of a blog post before starting it.
And to not change that title later.

In fact **I am not a blogger**:
I document my work on Lino using something which looks 
like blogging at first glance, but it is not blogging, it is change logging. 
The changelog is a part of Lino. 
It's not important to me to have my changelog entries 
published and spread quickly, they rather are a trace of what 
I have been doing on Lino and why. They sometimes 
help me to understand changes I have done years ago.
A changelog has at most one entry per day,
so it is useles to create a directory per day.

Then I discovered that my biggest problem with documenting 
code changes and releases for Lino and Lino-Welfare was the 
fact that Lino-Welfare had a multilingual `/docs` tree.
Changed that back to be a "technical" (English-only) 
website for administrators and developers.
The user manual for Lino-Welfare OTOH must be in NL, FR and DE 
(and **not** in English).
The sources for the user manual are in 
`/userman` 
and are currently not published.

Wrote a new directive 
:class:`blogindex <lino.utils.sphinxconf.BlogIndexDirective>` 
used to generate the overview calendars in 
:doc:`/blog/2012/index`
and
:doc:`/blog/2013/index`.
See source code of these pages.

