20130125
========


Number fields in grids
----------------------

There are still problems with number fields 
(quantities, percentages, prices,...)
in a grid.
E.g. an ExtJS numbercolumn renders null values as "0,00" .
Quantity columns should be right aligned, 
but also accept values like "2:30" or "2/3".




Testing Django 1.5. RC2
-----------------------

Russell Keith-Magee `wrote <https://www.djangoproject.com/weblog/2013/jan/24/delay-final-release-django-15/>`_:
"If you want to help ensure the quality of the final release, grab the code from the 1.5 release 
branch, and test it against your own projects and test suites."

First I had to learn 
`how to do branching with Git <http://git-scm.com/book/en/Git-Branching-Basic-Branching-and-Merging>`_

All `Lino demo sites <http://lino-framework.org/demos.html>`_ 
are now running the stable/1.5.x branch. 
You can see this in the :menuselection:`Site --> About` menu entry.

And here is the proof that :mod:`lino.utils.mti` 
still works in 1.5 but will have a problem in 1.6:

.. code-block:: bash

  ~/snapshots/django$ git checkout stable/1.5.x
  Branch stable/1.5.x set up to track remote branch stable/1.5.x from origin.
  Switched to a new branch 'stable/1.5.x'

  ~/snapshots/django$ git status
  # On branch stable/1.5.x
  nothing to commit (working directory clean)

  ~/hgwork/django$ python django-admin.py test --settings=lino.test_apps.mti.settings --traceback
  Creating test database for alias 'default'...
  INFO Analyzing models...
  INFO Starting Lino...
  INFO Lino Site None started. Languages: en. 6 models, 12 actors.
  INFO Using Lino 1.5.7, Django 1.5c1, ...
  .
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------
  Ran 1 test in 0.892s
  OK
  Destroying test database for alias 'default'...

  ~/hgwork/django$ git checkout master
  Switched to branch 'master'
  ~/hgwork/django$ git status
  # On branch master
  nothing to commit (working directory clean)

  ~/hgwork/django$ python django-admin.py test --settings=lino.test_apps.mti.settings --traceback
  Creating test database for alias 'default'...
  INFO Analyzing models...
  INFO Starting Lino...
  INFO Lino Site None started. Languages: en. 6 models, 12 actors.
  INFO Using Lino 1.5.7, Django 1.6.dev20130120065345, ...
  ...
  AttributeError: 'ChildCollector' object has no attribute 'add_batch'
  ...
  FAILED (failures=1)
  Destroying test database for alias 'default'...
  