20130202
========


Is multi-table inheritance bad?
-------------------------------

Daniel and Audrey were so nice to offer me a free copy 
of their book `Two scoops of Django <https://django.2scoops.org/>`_.
I gratefully accept it as a gift and an encouragement for my work on Lino.

Wow! this book is so great! I just can't wait to try all the new ideas I
got already during the five first chapters! Examples: use relative
imports, use pip and virtualenv, move all settings to the code
repository, ... 

... but I stopped at the beginning of chapter 6 because it's too dangerous
to continue right now: I must keep Lino and my mind *stable* during the
next 2 weeks because I'm going to travel to Belgium and show Lino to
potential partners and customers.

The question continued to haunt me, 
however, I had a sleepless night because the authors write:

  Multi-table inheritance, sometimes called ‘concrete inheritance’, 
  is considered by the authors and many other developers to be a 
  bad thing. We strongly recommend against using it.
  
That statement was a challenge to me. 
I had to either *understand* 
that they are right or *show* that they are wrong.

I had to reopen ticket :doc:`/tickets/22`!
Sigh!
Everything there seemed so clear to me!

And after some meditation I understood that indeed it's not clear!
An important observation was the fact that  
a Partner is **either** a Person 
**or** an Organization, **not both**.
Another hint is the fact that :mod:`lino.utils.mti` 
will break in Django 1.6.
Conclusion:
I was wrong.
We *can* do it without MTI, 
it just depends on how the user interface handles it!

As a proof of concept I wrote the new module :mod:`lino.modlib.partners` 
which is going to replace :mod:`lino.modlib.contacts`.

This also caused some small optimizations:

- :func:`when_prepared <lino.core.inject.when_prepared>`
  now supports more than one argument, 
  each of them being a model_spec.
- Better error messages at some internal places

But this proof of concept is not finised.
The main challenge is :doc:`/tickets/73`.

Also opened new ticket :doc:`/tickets/72`.


Pre-release rush
----------------

- The Lino Cosi online demo had a 
  "'State' object has no attribute 'editable'" traceback
  caused by lino.modlib.vat.models.DelarationStates.
  Fixed.
  
- Increased the version counters.
  
  