20130203
========

Why is Lino so complex?
-----------------------

I sometimes have been asked 
"Why is Lino so complex? 
Can't you split it down into smaller parts?"

One answer is: Lino is rather like 
Tolkien's "The Lord of the Rings" than 
like Mozart's "Kleine Nachtmusik"...

Another answer is: until now I didn't have to. 
There was no reason.
Or at least I didn't see one.
Or at least not one that would make up for the 
"increased administrative work" that would be caused by a split.

But tonight I thought that 
(1) most Python web application developers don't care about 
desktop-like applications.
(Daniel, do you also offer an accounting or 
invoicing applcation for your customers?),
and (2) much of my work is due to 
Django's missing server startup signal.

Google "django startup signal" comes up with 
:djangoticket:`13024` (Signal sent on application startup)
in first place. 
Yes I remember that I saw this ticket long time ago.
Oho? They closed it? And it is fixed?
"Closing as this is fixed in a branch which needs 
review. See #3591."

:djangoticket:`3591` (add support for custom 
app_label and verbose_name) seems truly very 
interesting and truly very complex. 
I'm looking forward to have it.
Django really needs this ticket.
But obviously it's not easy to find a good solution.

After reading all this, I got enlighted on how to split Lino:

- lino-tools : Includes lino.core and lino.utils
  (i.e. my solution to send startup signals, 
  dumpy fixtures, babel fields,...)
  
- lino-admin : lino.ui & Co

- lino-framework : lino.modlib and lino.mixins

(--> :doc:`/tickets/74`)


Pre-release rush
----------------

- New exception 
  "Oops: %s tries to migrate from version 1.0.12 to 1.0.11 ?!"
  
  
After release
-------------
  
  
- Fixed:
  Action "cbss.RetrieveTIGroupsRequests.duplicate_row" failed for Tx25-Anfrage 
  "Tx25-Anfrage #129": type object 'RequestStates' has no attribute 'blank_item'. 
  Ein Fehlerbericht wurde an den Systemverwalter geschickt.  
  