20130219
========

Bugfixes
--------

- `watch_tim` ist nochmal wieder etwas subtiler geworden: wenn man in TIM 
  den `PAR->IdUsr` eines Klienten ändert, dann kriegt die bestehende primäre 
  Begleitung in Lino nicht einfach den Benutzer aktualisiert, sondern sie bleibt 
  als sekundäre und beendete Begleitung erhalten (Enddatum = heute), 
  und watch_tim erstellt eine neue Begleitung für den neuen Benutzer.
  Wenn `PAR->IdUsr` *geleert* wird, wurde bisher die primäre Begleitung gelöscht. 
  Die bleibt jetzt ebenso als sekundäre und beendete Begleitung erhalten.


- :class:`Coaching <lino_welfare.pcsw.models.Coaching>` mistakenly was 
  a :class:`lino.mixins.UserAuthored`. That's not true. 
  The permission to edit the coachings of a client depends on many things, 
  but never on whether it is your own coaching or not.


Miscellaneous
-------------

Cool!
I moved the concept of "INS codes" from 
:mod:`lino_welfare.modlib.cbss` 
to a new independent app
:mod:`lino_welfare.modlib.statbel`.
And added this to the INSTALLED_APPS of `lino.projects.belref`.
Result:
the trilingual
`Countries <http://belref.lino-framework.org/countries/Countries>`_
and
`Cities <http://belref.lino-framework.org/countries/Cities>`_
lists at `belref` now have a column with their INS code.
These codes are added by
:mod:`lino_welfare.modlib.statbel.fixtures.inscodes`



Release
-------

- Renamed the remainders of `lino.ui` to `lino.ui_old`, 
  then renamed `lino.web` to :mod:`lino.ui`.
  
- Release notes:
  :doc:`Lino 1.5.9 </releases/1.5.9>`
  :welfare:`Welfare 1.0.12 </releases/1.0.12>`
  
- :mod:`lino.modlib.countries.fixtures.few_cities` failed for 
  sites that had English as main language.
  