20130303
========

When moving :mod:`lino.utils.dumpy` and
:mod:`lino.utils.babel` from Lino to Django-Site
I should use the occasion and find better names for them.


A better name for "dumpy" 
------------------------------------


``dumpy`` will probably become ``pyfixtures``
because producing dumps is only one usage.
They have different usages:
  
- Used by unit tests for 
  "Loading a database with a specific, known set of data" 
  (from Wikipedia `Test fixture 
  <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Test_fixture>`_ article)
  
- The same feature also serves to produce prototypes and 
  demo databases.
  
- dump ("serialize") the content of a database to a python script
  which can be loaded ("deserialized") to reproduce an exact duplicate 
  of the original database.
  
- read the dump from a previous version, performing database 
  conversions (migration).
  
Is there a better word than "fixture" to designate these features?


A better name for "babel"
-------------------------

``lino.utils.babel``
must get a new name because it 
clashes with the existing 
`babel <http://pythonhosted.org/Babel/>`__ 
project.
  
My first idea was ``mld`` (for "multilingual data") 
  
A Google query for "multilingual database content" shows that 
the topic is complex and has no one-for-all solution:

- `Schema for a multilanguage database
  <http://stackoverflow.com/questions/316780/schema-for-a-multilanguage-database>`__
  (2008-11-25) by `jwojciak <http://stackoverflow.com/users/5348/qbeuek>`__.
  
- `Multilingual database design approaches
  <http://fczaja.blogspot.com/2010/08/multilanguage-database-design.html>`__
  (2010-08-30) by `Filip Czaja
  <http://www.blogger.com/profile/12289949072596625867>`__
  
- On 2011-06-07 Reinhout van Rees (NL)
  `writes <http://reinout.vanrees.org/weblog/2011/06/07/multilingual-orm.html>`__
  about Jonas Obrist's (CH)
  `django-nani <http://django-nani.readthedocs.org>`__ project.
  After reading the `Quickstart page
  <http://django-nani.readthedocs.org/en/0.0.3/public/quickstart.html>`__
  I say: the fundamental differences to my work is that
  `lino.utils.babel` is single-table, 
  which is possible because
  database conversions and migrations are handled 
  by `lino.utils.dumpy`.
  Another difference is that 
  `lino.utils.babel` has no integration facilities for 
  Django's Admin (though it shouldn't be too difficult to add it, 
  that's just because I personally have no need for it).
    
- Kristian Øllegaard (DK)
  wrote a fork of `django-nani` called 
  `django-hvad <https://github.com/KristianOellegaard/django-hvad>`__
  which unlike django-nani "does not affect the default queries, 
  which means that everything will continue to work as it was before.")
  
The division goes on
---------------------

Maybe I should even move them to separate projects and not to `django-site`?
Because it should be possible to use `django-site` together 
with `django-nani` or `django-hvad`.

Here we go for the next new projects:

- "django-pyfixtures", 
- "django-stml" for "single-table multilingual database content"?

Or a common new project for these two, because it makes no sense to 
use them separately?

- Maybe "django-north", because it does database migrations using 
  another approach than South? 
  
That sounds good:

  `django-north <https://code.google.com/p/django-north/>`__:
  Another way to migrate Django databases
  
  A Python code serializer/deserializer for Django which lets you write intelligent fixtures and generate database dumps. Includes an optional single-table solution for handling multilingual database content. Optionally usable as an alternative to South for managing database migrations.
  
  

