===================================
20130313 (Wednesday, 13 March 2013)
===================================

More fun with packaging
-----------------------

Oops, the installation instruction in :doc:`/tutorials/quickstart` 
still doesn't work.
And I'm decided to get this working soon. 
But there are still a lot of stupid packaging problems which make it break. 

- Moved `/lino/projects/sphinxdocs/settings.py` to `docs`.
  Added new command ``initdb`` to :mod:`djangosite.utils.fablib` 
  which runs an `initdb_demo`
  on the docs database.
  
- removed usage of the `djangodoctest` directive and the 
  :mod:`djangosite.utils.doctest` module.
  
- Moved lino.utils.test to djangosite.utils.test  

- More testing commands in `fablib.py`. 
  My favourite command is now::

    fab ci test html sdist pub
    fab ci sdist pub

- The automated sphinx-apidoc lacks two things:

  - Specify a list of modules to exclude
  - An option to specify a list of packages for which
    we want a separate page per module instead of
    grouping all modules of a package into a same page.
    
    
- New error message "Using remote authentication, but no 
  user credentials found.". On a development server with a 
  :attr:`lino.ui.Site.remote_user_header` 
  but without 
  :attr:`lino.ui.Site.default_user`.
  
  
- Started test phase with several releases for Lino, North and Django-Site.
  - Lino 1.6.1, 1.6.2
  - North 0.0.3 through 0.0.4
  - django-site 0.0.3 through 0.0.4
  
  Certain files weren't includedd in the Python egg:
  `setup_info.py` file and Lino's static `media` directory 
  (the one that gets linked more or less automatically to 
  the `/media/lino` url).
  It seems that this topic is very hot for the moment,
  but a pragmatical solution seems to move this directory 
  one level down into the `lino` package.
    
- Moved the uiless tutorial from lino to north where it is 
  called The Polls tutorial. 
  
  
  
  
  
  