==================================
20130314 (Thursday, 14 March 2013)
==================================

Still working on the "pip install lino" problem.
Which takes so much time because I also work on 
the "better automated testing" problem.


- Moved the uiless tutorial from lino to north where it is 
  called The Polls tutorial. This caused yet another testing 
  method :func:`run_bash_tests <djangosite.utils.fablib.run_bash_tests>`.
  
- Trying the solution to move the `media` directory 
  one level down into the `lino` package:
  ``hg mv media lino`` and one line in :mod:`lino.ui.urls` to change
  (todo: instructions for existing servers to move their symbolic link)

- Deleted and re-uploaded once more the "official" PyPI releases 
  (django-site and Nort 0.0.4, Lino 1.6.2).
  
How to include data files to a Python egg
-----------------------------------------

I'd like that ``pip install lino`` also installs the 
files under `/media` so that Lino users can use it out of the box.

It wasn't enough to just move the `/media` source directory 
to `/lino/media`. 
Why does it work for files like :srcref:`/lino/ui/linoweb.js`?
Because they are in a Python package, and because 
MANIFEST.in has an `global-include` instruction to include 
`*.js` files.

Should I have to turn it (and all the subdirectories!) 
into Python packages?
One of them is e.g. `lino/media/extjs/images/default/grid`.
That would be a few dozen of otherwise useless `__init__.py` files.
No, there must be a better way.
  
- Distribute is a fork of the Setuptools project:
  `Documentation <http://pythonhosted.org/distribute/>`__  
  `Bitbucket <https://bitbucket.org/tarek/distribute/wiki/Home>`__
  `PyPI entry <https://pypi.python.org/pypi/distribute>`__
 
The documentation section 
`Accessing Data Files at Runtime
<http://pythonhosted.org/distribute/setuptools.html#accessing-data-files-at-runtime>`__
says clearly what I'm doing wrong:

  Typically, existing programs manipulate a package’s __file__ attribute in order to find the location of data files. However, this manipulation isn’t compatible with PEP 302-based import hooks, including importing from zip files and Python Eggs. It is strongly recommended that, if you are using data files, you should use the Resource Management API of pkg_resources to access them.
  
And the 
`Accessing Package Resources
<http://peak.telecommunity.com/DevCenter/PythonEggs#accessing-package-resources>`__
link explains how to make it better.

Note that we are not yet trying to convert the `linoweb.js` file into 
a package resource because that's an even more sophisticated case 
because Lino also maintains an automatically generated messages file 
`linoweb.js.py` to handle translation messages from this template.

In :mod:`lino.ui.urls`, instead of saying...

::

  setup_media_link('lino',source=join(dirname(lino.__file__),'..','media'))

... I must say::

  from pkg_resources import Requirement, resource_filename
  setup_media_link('lino',source=resource_filename(Requirement.parse("lino"),"media"))

This works on the development server of my machine 
where Lino is installed in editable mode using ``pip install -e``.
The `resource_filename` function correctly returns the name 
of that directory (I added a new INFO message to verify this)::

  INFO django.views.static serving /lino from t:\hgwork\lino\media

But will it work from a zipped egg? 
If `resource_filename` unzips these files to a new temporary directory 
each time, then we must expect problems. The development server would 
just need longer to start and fill the temporaty folder, but on a 
production server Lino creates a symbolic link to that directory,
which is probably not what we want.

Maybe I should leave `zip_safe` to `False` because of this.
Anyway it must remain False as long as the `linoweb.js` file 
is being read using `__file__`.

Of course I must also use either specify `package_data` 
or `include_package_data` 
in :srcref:`/lino/setup_info.py`
so that these files get distributed.

`include_package_data` : 
if set to True, this tells setuptools to automatically include 
any data files it finds inside your package directories, that 
are either under CVS or Subversion control, or which are specified 
by your MANIFEST.in file. 

While working at these things I used the occasion to start splitting 
off the ExtJS UI into a separate project. 

Once more I removed and replaced the Lino 1.6.2, North 0.0.4 and 
djangosite 0.0.4 releases at PyPI.

But when I try this on rose, I get::

  Exception: /home/luc/luc/lib/python2.7/site-packages/media does not exist
  
The media directory with all these files *is* 
contained in the `lino-1.6.2.tar.gz` file,
and the `resource_filename` function *did* 
return a string with a full path,
but obviously there is no such directory
`.../python2.7/site-packages/media`,
and anyway it should be rather 
`.../python2.7/site-packages/lino/media`.

Maybe I must use `package_data` instead of `include_package_data`.
Or maybe it's enough to just move the `media` directory one level down to `lino` (again).

But stop here now!
A customer is waiting for a Lino-Welfare release, 
and I decided to have the eggability problem wait 
now until the customer is satisfied. 
Lino cannot yet be used from a Python egg because of the above problems.
I updated :doc:`/tutorials/quickstart` accordingly.



Preparing a release for Lino-Welfare
------------------------------------

- Fixed a bug "global name 'PermissionDenied' is not defined" 
  which occured on demo4
  
- Removed the css style `x-grid3-cell-inner` which defined a hard-coded height of 18px.
  So I restored ExtJS's default behaviour.
  That's needed for :class:`lino_welfare.modlib.jobs.models.NewJobsOverview`.
  

