================================
20130315 (Friday, 15 March 2013)
================================


Kandidaturen auf Probe
----------------------

Eine Kandidatur 
(:class:`Candidature <lino_welfare.modlib.jobs.models.Candidature>`) 
hatte bisher lediglich ein Ankreuzfeld "Aktiv". 
Das wurde ersetzt durch ein Auswahlfeld "Zustand" mit den möglichen 
Werten "Aktiv", "Probezeit", "Inaktiv".
(:class:`CandidatureStates 
<lino_welfare.modlib.jobs.models.CandidatureStates>`)


Nicht zu verwechseln: eine *aktive* Kandidatur bedeutet, 
dass der Klient *keinen* aktiven Art-60*7 hat.

In der Übersicht Art-60*7 
(:class:`JobsOverview <lino_welfare.modlib.jobs.models.JobsOverview>`)
wird dieser Status der Kandidaturen jetzt berücksichtigt:
Als "Kandidaten" stehen jetzt nur noch Kandidaturen 
im Zustand "Aktiv" (bisher standen dort alle Kandidaturen).
Als "Probezeit" stehen jetzt nur noch Kandidaturen im Zustand "Probezeit".


Documentation for Lino-Welfare
------------------------------

A little sprint before releasing Lino-Welfare:
Worked on the documentation at 
`Lino-Welfare Technical Reference <http://welfare.lino-framework.org/>`__
which passes now (and *without* using `tolerate_sphinx_warnings`!).

- changed "autodocs" to "api"

- Removed :file:`/lino_welfare/releases.py` after moving the information 
  there to :file:`/docs/releases/index.rst`.
  But this is not used.
  I'm still waiting for the ultimate solution for managing the releases 
  of my collection of interdepent projects...
  
- Removed :file:`/lino_welfare/modlib/cbss/management/commands/cbss_testconnection.py`
  because it was hopelessly obsolete.
  
- Added a new role 
  :func:`:blogref: <djangosite.utils.sphinxconf.blogref_role>`
  and started to replace existing references which had become invalid.
  An example is the docstring of 
  :func:`migrate_from_1_2_2 <lino_welfare.modlib.pcsw.migrate_old.migrate_from_1_2_2>`.

- Found jmbowman's pull request 
  `Allow apidoc to exclude individual files  
  <https://bitbucket.org/birkenfeld/sphinx/pull-request/110/allow-apidoc-to-exclude-individual-files/diff>`__
  for Sphinx issue #944 `sphinx-apidoc: add ability to exclude specific files or filepatterns
  <https://bitbucket.org/birkenfeld/sphinx/issue/944/sphinx-apidoc-add-ability-to-exclude>`__.
  Very nice.
  So I can simply wait (as long as there's no urgent need).
  
- The :class:`rst2py <djangosite.utils.sphinxconf.Py2rstDirective>`
  directive now has :attr:`settings.SITE.modules <lino.Site.modules>` 
  as default context. This is used to write dynamically generated tables 
  in the docstrings of of
  :class:`<lino_welfare.modlib.jobs.models.Job>`
  or
  :class:`<lino_welfare.modlib.jobs.models.CandidatureStates>`.
  
- The above made me discover and eliminate a bug (empty bold text) in 
  :func:`html2rst <lino.utils.xmlgen.html.html2rst>`.
  An empty text was converted to ``****`` which caused a docutils parser error::
  
    <autodoc>:0: SEVERE: Unexpected section title or transition.
  
  Another meta-bug was that the :mod:`lino.utils.xmlgen.html` 
  module wasn't yet being doctested because the following line 
  was missing in :srcref:`/fabfile.py`::
  
    env.simple_doctests.append('lino/utils/xmlgen/html.py')
