==================================
20130323 (Saturday, 23 March 2013)
==================================

Extract messages using Babel instead of Django
----------------------------------------------

Cool! Today I replaced the sophisticated and intransparent system for handling 
internationalization (which used only Django's builtin possibilities and 
needed :srcref:`/Makefile`) 
by a transparent and easy-to-use system using Babel_
(and Jinja's `Babel Integration 
<http://jinja.pocoo.org/docs/integration/>`__).

.. _Babel: http://babel.edgewall.org/wiki/Documentation/setup.html

The configuration is in :srcref:`/lino/setup_info.py`::

  SETUP_INFO.update(message_extractors = {
      'lino': [
          ('**/sandbox/**',        'ignore', None),
          ('**/cache/**',          'ignore', None),
          ('**.py',                'python', None),
          ('**.js',                'javascript', None),
          ('**/templates_jinja/**.html', 'jinja2', None),
      ],
  })


The raw commands to issue (supposing locale "de" ) are::

  setup.py extract_messages -o lino/locale/django.pot
  setup.py init_catalog    --domain django -d lino/locale -l de -i lino/locale/django.pot
  setup.py update_catalog  --domain django -d lino/locale -l de -i lino/locale/django.pot
  setup.py compile_catalog --domain django -d lino/locale -l de


A first nice surprise is the following message:

  SyntaxError: python refuses to compile code with both a UTF8 byte-order-mark and a magic encoding comment

There were indeed a few files with this problem (which had never occured 
on my machine, though, and I'm not going to research why).

One fundamental difference is: until now I had a 
lot of `locale` directories (one for each app), 
but I'm going to have now a single one in 
:srcref:`/lino/locale`.
Because that simplifies everything a lot!
Except that I'll need to find out how to recover the 
existing translations. 
Here is the Windows shell command used to get a list of the German ones::

  T:\hgwork\lino>dir /s django.po /b | grep de\\

Another little difference:
Django's makemessages command automatically removed the .pot files,
I am going to leave the :srcref:`/lino/locale/django.pot` file hanging around.

The above commands are now fully implemented in :mod:`djangosite.utils.fablib` as::

  fab em
  fab im
  fab um
  fab cm
  
  
While converting lino_welfare to the new system I 
noticed that I can now finally also put the central things 
like the settings.py file, demo fixtures and management commands
to where they belong (to the top-level directory)
I used the occasion to split the central parts of 
:mod:`lino_welfare.modlib.pcsw.models`
into a new module :mod:`lino_welfare.models`.

:class:`north.north_site.Site` now does the same for `LOCALE_PATHS` as for `FIXTURE_DIRS`: 
it extends Django's automatic discovery system by searching also for 
"locale" subdirectories relative to any Python module 
that defines a subclass of :class:`north.north_site.Site` 
(usually a :file:`settings.py` file) 
and which are *not* part of an app 
(in which case a locale directory should not be mentioned there because 
Django already searches them, as explained
in `How Django discovers translations
<https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/topics/i18n/translation/#how-django-discovers-translations>`_).

One "detail" causes still headache: Babel_ doesn't seem to 
support message contexts, at least it doesn't extract them 
using `pgettext` instead of `gettext`.
A ticket `278 <http://babel.edgewall.org/ticket/278>`_ 
mentioned this, but it has been closed as duplicate
of `277 <http://babel.edgewall.org/ticket/277>`_
which afaics doesn't speak at all about pgettext.

An example of where this causes problem is 
the German male salutation "Herr" or "Herrn":
both salutations are "Mr" in English, 
but in German there are two cases. 
Lino provides some utility functions for this, 
see :ref:`lino.tutorial.human`. 
This is done using pgettext (see source code at
:srcref:`/lino/mixins/human.py`),
but Babel seems to simply ignore these.
It does read the file::

  ...
  extracting messages from lino\mixins\human.py
  ...
  

UPDATE: What a funny coincidence! 
The last post in Babel's mailinglist was exactly 
about this problem, and it told me that Babel *can* 
do pgettext, but they just didn't yet release it officially! 
Tried with a checkout of the latest trunk version 
(which is not completely trivial but 
`there are clear instructions 
<http://babel.edgewall.org/wiki/SubversionCheckout>`_): yes, that works.

Only remaining problem is that I'd prefer to use a released 
version on my customer's site.


To trust or not to trust?
-------------------------

Before releasing yesterdays new "textfield templates are now parsed using Jinja" 
feature to :ref:`lf`, 
I'd rather add the new attribute :attr:`lino.ui.Site.trusted_templates` which is False 
by default. So sorry, you cannot see this feature in our live demos.



