===================================
20130327 (Wednesday, 27 March 2013)
===================================

After having seen the demo sites at :ref:`lf` 
work even without the released version of Babel_,
I understood that the warning
"Lino currently requires the development version of python-babel 
which requires some manual work as explained on their site in
`Setting up Babel from a Subversion Checkout
<http://babel.edgewall.org/wiki/SubversionCheckout>`_, 
see :blogref:`20130323`" 
in :ref:`lino.dev.install`
was wrong and removed it.
Because the development version is needed only 
for extracting messages with pgettext and writing catalog 
files, but not for using them. 

.. _Babel: http://babel.edgewall.org

Today I still continued to work on the API 
for writing tested docs, used in 
:ref:`welfare.tested.debts`
and :ref:`welfare.tested.misc`.

Redesigned the signatures of 
:meth:`lino.core.actors.Actor.request`
and
:meth:`lino.ui.Site.login`.


I had an idea which would enable us to replace calls like::

  ses.show(debts.ExpensesByBudget.request(obj))
  
by:: 

  ses.show(obj.expenses_by_budget())
  
Lino would have automagically converted a string like "ExpensesByBudget" to 
"expenses_by_budget" (using :func:`lino.util.uncamel`), 
and even use a new optimal class attribute `Actor.related_name` 
to give custom names.

But I then dropped this feature because it creates an additional 
copy of the actor's name. 
This would cause additional work when an actor needs to be renamed.
So we refuse this feature deliberately.

Adapted appy_pod.Renderer to the new interface.
Added another new style of test
in :ref:`welfare.tested.debts`: 
print a document using appy_pod!
It is a pity though that the appy_pod renderer 
has appearently no option to *not* 
catch any exception that occurs during the rendering.
So the test isn't yet really perfect.
