================================
20130329 (Friday, 29 March 2013)
================================

Released :ref:`welfare.1.1.1` & Co
----------------------------------

- Added a test in French to :ref:`welfare.tested.debts`.

- "Inactive" wasn't yet translated to German.

- Upgrading a Lino site that hasn't installed pip requires quite some manual work.
  Here is an excerpt::

    $ cd /var/snapshots/

    $ wget http://www.lino-framework.org/dl/lino/lino-1.6.4.tar.gz
    $ wget http://www.lino-framework.org/dl/North/North-0.1.1.tar.gz
    $ wget http://www.lino-framework.org/dl/djangosite/djangosite-0.1.1.tar.gz
    $ wget http://www.lino-framework.org/dl/lino-welfare/lino-welfare-1.1.1.tar.gz

    $ tar xvzf djangosite-0.1.1.tar.gz
    $ tar xvzf North-0.1.1.tar.gz
    $ tar xvzf lino-1.6.4.tar.gz
    $ tar xvzf lino-welfare-1.1.1.tar.gz

    $ cd /usr/local/django/mysite/using
    $ ll
    total 0
    lrwxrwxrwx 1 lsaffre www-data 25 Mar 17 19:06 lino -> /var/snapshots/lino-1.6.3
    lrwxrwxrwx 1 lsaffre www-data 26 Mar 27 20:45 north -> /var/snapshots/North-0.1.0
    lrwxrwxrwx 1 lsaffre www-data 31 Mar 17 19:05 site -> /var/snapshots/djangosite-0.1.0
    lrwxrwxrwx 1 lsaffre www-data 33 Mar 17 19:06 welfare -> /var/snapshots/lino-welfare-1.1.0
    $ rm *
    $ ln -s /var/snapshots/lino-1.6.4 lino
    $ ln -s /var/snapshots/North-0.1.1 north
    $ ln -s /var/snapshots/djangosite-0.1.1 site
    $ ln -s /var/snapshots/lino-welfare-1.1.1 welfare


sphinx-apidoc and the `__init__.py` files
-----------------------------------------

`sphinx-apidoc <http://sphinx-doc.org/man/sphinx-apidoc.html>`__ 
generates the wrong automodule directive for 
the `__init__.py` file of a package. 
For example, here is an excerpt of the 
file `/docs/api/djangosite.rst`, as it
was generated for my for :mod:`djangosite` package
before I patched my copy of `sphinx-apidoc`::

    :mod:`djangosite` Package
    -------------------------

    .. automodule:: djangosite.__init__  <<<------------- PROBLEM
        :members:
        :show-inheritance:

    :mod:`dbutils` Module
    ---------------------

    .. automodule:: djangosite.dbutils
        :members:
        :show-inheritance:


(In case you noticed it, I had specified 
`os.environ.update(SPHINX_APIDOC_OPTIONS="members,show-inheritance")`
while running sphinx-apidoc)

The problem is that a ``:class:`` reference to
``djangosite.Site``
didn't work, I had to write 
``djangosite.__init__.Site``.

I solved this for myself by finding the following function definition in the `apidoc.py` file::

  def format_directive(module, package=None):
      """Create the automodule directive and add the options."""
      directive = '.. automodule:: %s\n' % makename(package, module)
      for option in OPTIONS:
          directive += '    :%s:\n' % option
      return directive

And adding a ``.replace('.__init__','')`` to the following line::

    directive = '.. automodule:: %s\n' % makename(package, module).replace('.__init__','')


Now a reference to :class:`djangosite.Site` works.


A selection list for number fields
----------------------------------

One customer request is about the "Amount" field of a Budget Entry. 
This field ist filled with a default value that 
comes from `Account.default_amount` (a field that is injected 
into the Account model by 
:func:`lino_welfare.modlib.debts.models.customize_accounts`).
Here is the request:

  The default amount works well, but for certain accounts 
  I'd like to configure not only one default amount 
  but a list of a few possible amounts to choose from.

The Lino part is easy: just write a :func:`lino.core.chooser` method for this field::

    @chooser(simple_values=True)
    def amount_choices(cls,account):
        return account.default.amount.split(';')
        
But the problem is how to render such a field! ExtJS has no "NumberComboBox".

Ext.form.ComboBox extends Ext.form.TriggerField which extends 
Ext.form.TextField, but Ext.form.NumberField also just extends Ext.form.TextField. 
You cannot configure a ComboBox to use a displayField which is a NumberField and 
not a TextField.

To implement a "NumberComboBox" we would have to duplicate a lot of ExtJS JavaScript code.
No I refuse to do that for the moment, at least as long as we didn't migrate to ExtJS4.

A workaround (admittedly a suboptimal one) is to define several accounts in that case.

Default verbose_name for ForeignKey parameter fields
----------------------------------------------------

The :func:`lino.core.kernel.set_default_verbose_name` 
is now also being used for ForeignKey fields in an Actor's parameter panel 
(:attr:`lino.core.actors.Actor.parameters`).

Yet another JobsOverview
------------------------

Wrote a new version of :class:`lino_welfare.modlib.debts.NewJobsOverview`.



