==================================
20130411 (Thursday, 11 April 2013)
==================================

One of the "details" which need work before Lino can become industrial
is due to the fact that I invented the :doc:`"using" directory trick </admin/using/>` 
before Django's `staticfiles <https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/howto/static-files/>`_ 
became available (or before I discovered it). 

TODO:

- Move :file:`/lino/lino/media` to  :file:`/lino/lino/ui/static`
  
- Replace "/media/" by "/static" in the relevant places
  (e.g. :mod:`lino.ui.urls`)

- Have Lino manage the settings
  `STATIC_URL <https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/ref/settings/#std:setting-STATIC_URL>`_,
  `STATIC_ROOT <https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/ref/settings/#std:setting-STATIC_ROOT>`_
  and
  `STATICFILES_DIRS <https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/ref/settings/#staticfiles-dirs>`_
  
- Start using the 
  `collectstatic <https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/ref/contrib/staticfiles/#django-admin-collectstatic>`_
  and
  `findstatic <https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/ref/contrib/staticfiles/#django-admin-findstatic>`_
  commands.
  
- Adapt documentation. 


UnicodeDecodeError in Python 2.6 standard logging
-------------------------------------------------

I sometimes see the following traceback in my `error.log`::

    [Wed Apr 10 16:18:12 2013] [error] Traceback (most recent call last):
    [Wed Apr 10 16:18:12 2013] [error]   File "/usr/lib/python2.6/logging/__init__.py", line 776, in emit
    [Wed Apr 10 16:18:12 2013] [error]     msg = self.format(record)
    [Wed Apr 10 16:18:12 2013] [error]   File "/usr/lib/python2.6/logging/__init__.py", line 654, in format
    [Wed Apr 10 16:18:12 2013] [error]     return fmt.format(record)
    [Wed Apr 10 16:18:12 2013] [error]   File "/usr/lib/python2.6/logging/__init__.py", line 436, in format
    [Wed Apr 10 16:18:12 2013] [error]     record.message = record.getMessage()
    [Wed Apr 10 16:18:12 2013] [error]   File "/usr/lib/python2.6/logging/__init__.py", line 306, in getMessage
    [Wed Apr 10 16:18:12 2013] [error]     msg = msg % self.args
    [Wed Apr 10 16:18:12 2013] [error] UnicodeDecodeError: 'ascii' codec can't decode byte 0xc3 in position 45: ordinal not in range(128)

Okay, there's probably some bug in my code which asks to log a non-unicode 
string with non-ascii characters. But where? The traceback unfortunately 
gives no hint about this.

I tried to reproduce this error using things like::

  # -*- coding: UTF-8 -*-
  import logging
  logging.warning('Watch out!') 
  logging.warning('Watch out, %s!', "Mike") 
  logging.warning('Regarde, %s!', "Jürgen") 

No success. I then edited the `/usr/lib/python2.6/logging/__init__.py`, line 306::

        if self.args:
            msg = msg % self.args
            
Changed the above to::            
 
        if self.args:
            try:
              msg = msg % self.args
            except UnicodeDecodeError,e:
              raise UnicodeDecodeError("Failed to decode %r" % self.args)
 
So now I hope that when it happens again I can at least see what it 
was trying to decode...
 
TypeError: 'NoneType' object is not iterable 
--------------------------------------------

Another bug due to recent changes (pluggable UI) occured only 
in a multi-threaded situation::

    Traceback (most recent call last):
      File "/usr/local/pythonenv/demo/lib/python2.6/site-packages/django/core/handlers/wsgi.py", line 255, in __call__
        response = self.get_response(request)
      File "/usr/local/pythonenv/demo/lib/python2.6/site-packages/django/core/handlers/base.py", line 178, in get_response
        response = self.handle_uncaught_exception(request, resolver, sys.exc_info())
      File "/usr/local/pythonenv/demo/lib/python2.6/site-packages/django/core/handlers/base.py", line 220, in handle_uncaught_exception
        if resolver.urlconf_module is None:
      File "/usr/local/pythonenv/demo/lib/python2.6/site-packages/django/core/urlresolvers.py", line 342, in urlconf_module
        self._urlconf_module = import_module(self.urlconf_name)
      File "/usr/local/pythonenv/demo/lib/python2.6/site-packages/django/utils/importlib.py", line 35, in import_module
        __import__(name)
      File "/home/luc/hgwork/lino/lino/ui/urls.py", line 55, in <module>
        settings.SITE.ui.setup_ui_plugin()
      File "/home/luc/hgwork/lino/lino/ui/ui.py", line 163, in setup_ui_plugin
        for res in actors.actors_list:
    TypeError: 'NoneType' object is not iterable

Test suite for Lino-Welfare
---------------------------

Converted the last test suite (Lino-Welfare) to the new system 
using `setup.py test` instead of `fab test`.

Note: It was a mistake to implement these tests using fab because 
(1) it was not possible to run only individual tests 
(an important thing when you are working on a particular test case)
and (2) it was not the standard method and thus not visible to tools 
who run a test suite of a package automatically.
OTOH I'm still grateful to fabric who helped me discover these testing 
methods.

A command to test them all
--------------------------

And now finally: I wrote a bash command `rt` (for "run tests") 
which runs the test suites of all my projects at once.
When no suite fails, it says::

  All tests passed (for projects atelier site north lino welfare)
  Congratulations!

Currently they are five, but there will be more.

Similar commands `mad` ("make all docs")
and `all_ci`.

And now I can go to sleep :-)

