=================================
20130423 (Tuesday, 23 April 2013)
=================================

'WSGIRequest' object has no attribute 'subst_user'
--------------------------------------------------

I finally looked up why I received often a series of error messages
"'WSGIRequest' object has no attribute 'subst_user'" from the demo 
sites. These server tracebacks were caused by html HEAD requests 
issued by my own monitor.
:mod:`lino.utils.auth` forgot to set `request.subst_user` to `None`
in such cases.
Wrote some docstrings in module :mod:`lino.utils.auth`.
New class :mod:`lino.utils.auth.AuthMiddleWareBase`.

User message when contract type empty
-------------------------------------

The `type` field of 
:ref:`welfare.isip.Contract`
and
:ref:`welfare.jobs.Contract`
is declared `blank=True` but `null=False`.
Which is what we want: 
if the user submits an empty value for this field, 
Lino should fill a default value before saving it.
But in some cases Lino cannot determine a default value.
In this cases, the user saw only a message "Server-side failure" 
instead of something meaningful which says that she just forgot 
to fill in the "Contract type" field.
:class:`lino_welfare.modlib.isip.models.ContractBase`
now raises ValidationErrror "You must specify a contract type."
Optimizations in 
:mod:lino.ui.views`
and :mod:lino.ui.store`.


.pdf table doesn't always render
--------------------------------

:ref:`welfare.jobs.NewJobsOverview` implements the new user-requested 
layout and works very well... on `hoppel` and on `lf.org`, 
but *not* on `dsbe`.

Here is a table with some first observations:

======= === ============ =========================== ========
machine ok  LO/OOo       OS                          Python
======= === ============ =========================== ========
hoppel  ok  libreoffice  Ubuntu                      2.7
lf.org  ok  openoffice   Debian Lenny stable         2.6.6
dsbe    -   libreoffice  Debian Lenny stable         2.6.6
======= === ============ =========================== ========

To gather more information I added a temporary call to `logging.info` in 
:meth:`lino.utils.appy_pod.Renderer.insert_table`.

Ha! The problem had nothing to do with the LO or OOo version but 
with the fact that the production site wanted to render some italic 
text. And that wasn't yet supported.
Printing the document :ref:`welfare.jobs.NewJobsOverview`
caused a "NotImplementedError: <i> inside <text:p>" traceback 
when one of the jobs had a remark. 

:mod:`lino.utils.html2odf` now converts the text formats `<i>` 
and `<em>` to a style "Emphasis".

En passant: 
`<b>` is no longer converted to "Bold Text" but to "Strong Emphasis".

Added some remarks to the jobs generated by the 
:mod:`lino_welfare.fixtures.demo` fixture, 
and a test case in :ref:`welfare.tested.misc`
so that this is now covered by the test suite.

This testcase required a little change in EmptyTableRow: 
For Actions of an EmptyTable it wasn't yet possible to access 
the :class:`lino.core.actions.InstanceAction`.


Inaktive Kursanfragen
---------------------

Wir brauchen kein neues Feld "Status" einer Kursanfrage, 
weil es das schon gibt:
:ref:`welfare.courses.CourseRequestStates`

Was fehlte, war ein weiterer Status "Inaktiv" und dass dass 
Feld nicht sichtbar war in der 
:ref:`welfare.courses.PendingCourseRequests`.

    
