===================================
20130424 (Wednesday, 24 April 2013)
===================================


Virtual remote fields in an ExtJS grid
--------------------------------------

Solved a subtle last problem which had managed to slip through the tests:
virtual remote fields in an ExtJS grid were rendered without value
because `StoreField.as_js` gave them the name of the delegated field.

The new column "Coaches" in :ref:`welfare.courses.PendingCourseRequests`
was empty in the extJS version.


More accurate column widths
---------------------------

The age slice columns of :ref:`welfare.courses.PendingCourseRequests`
were rendered in ExtJS always a l ittle bit to narrowly so that one had 
to adjust their width in order to see their header.

In `linoweb.js` Lino defines the following JavaScript function::

  Lino.chars2width = function(cols) {  return cols * 9; }
  
And Lino generated the following JS code for each columns::
  
  new Lino.NullNumberColumn({ "colIndex": 11, "sortable": false, 
  "format": "0", "editable": false, 
  "tooltip": "(courses.PendingCourseRequests.a16) ", 
  "header": "16-24", "dataIndex": "a16", 
  "width": Lino.chars2width(5) }  

So ExtJS gave that column a with of `5 * 9 = 45` pixels.

The width of the rendered JS code comes from :mod:`lino.ui.elems`::

    kw.update(width=js_code("Lino.chars2width(%d)" % (w)))
    
I replaced this by::    

  kw.update(width=js_code("Lino.chars2width(%d)" % (w+1)))

IOW I add 1 character (9 pixels) to the theoretic column width.


Preparing for the next release
------------------------------

The next release will be only for 
Lino Welfare, not for atelier, site and north because there 
were no important changes in those projects.

Lino 1.6.6 
Lino-Welfare 1.1.3


Updated the LETS tutorial
-------------------------

For Michaël: :ref:`lino.tutorial.lets` 



A parameter panel for PendingCourseRequests
-------------------------------------------

In der :ref:`welfare.courses.PendingCourseRequests` muss ich noch 
ein params_panel machen, damit man bequem filtern kann.

Hier hat Lino mich nochmal wieder überrascht: es war kinderleicht, 
die Filterparameter von pcsw.Clients zu "erben" und in den eigenen 
Filter zu übernehmen.


More workflow management for course requests
--------------------------------------------

Added a `workflow_buttons` column to 
:ref:`welfare.courses.PendingCourseRequests`
and two workflow actions: from inactive to active and retour.
Also added a `CourseRequest.get_row_permission` to hide the "Register" 
action in this table (because it would always say 
"cannot register to unknown course").

TODO:

- warum kann man ein CourseRequest nicht auf aktiv zurücksetzen?
- Problem userdocs: :ref:`welfare.courses.PendingCourseRequests`
  funktioniert nicht.



