================================
20130429 (Monday, 29 April 2013)
================================

About the Pyramid Web Application Development Framework
-------------------------------------------------------

I've been asked what I think about
`Pyramid <http://docs.pylonsproject.org/projects/pyramid>`_.

Yes, Pyramid looks nice.

But I chose Django because of the *ORM*, not because of 
the *web framework*.
There are many Python-based web frameworks and I am certainly not 
the one who is going to write a better comparison of them.

Pyramid, unlike Django, doesn't force you to use a given ORM. 
You can use your own, or an existing one like 
SQLAlchemy or ZODB.

`SQLAlchemy <http://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/latest/orm/tutorial.html>`_
is beautiful and similar to Django's ORM.
If I had time or need for a comparison, I'd have a deeper look at it 
by implementing some example application also in SQLAlchemy.
Maybe one day out of curiosity.
Maybe when I write a tutorial about querying data.


Miscellaneous
-------------

I noticed that Melanie didn't have the
:menulabel:`Explorer` menu. But at least 
:menulabel:`Explorer --> Courses` is meant to be visible for 
her profile ("chef de service" without being 
"system administrator").

This was because the `Site` defined in 
:mod:`lino_welfare.settings` 
defines it's own 
:meth:`lino.ui.Site.setup_menu`
method (a rather obsolete way to do it)
which never called `setup_explorer_menu` for user profiles 
that were not system admins. Fixed.



