=================================
20130430 (Tuesday, 30 April 2013)
=================================


VirtualBox machine in a LAN
---------------------------

I have a VirtualBox VM with a Windows XP which I 
use to test and maintain TIM. 
I installed it using an originial SP2 installation disk 
bought in 2005 with a machine which was always running under Debian.
After installation I "activated" this copy and ran Windows Upgrade
(which wasn't completely fool-proof anymore due to the venerable age, 
but it worked). 
Let's call it HoppelXP (because it's the Windows XP running on Hoppel).
I also had no serious problem to copy data from Armand to HoppelXP.
I got TIM running there and started to use it to write down my 
internal work reports.

Then the problems started.
I don't know what I changed, but HoppelXP cannot see anymore
neither the internet nor the other machines of our LAN.

During the first few minutes after starting the VM, issuing "net use"
in a command prompt produces::

  System error 1222 has occured.
  
  The network is not present or not started.

and double-clicking the `Network connections` icon of the 
Control Panel opens an empty window with an hourglass cursor.

After some minutes of pure waiting, the window fills and 


The `VB user manual 
<http://www.virtualbox.org/manual/ch09.html#changenat>`_ says:

    In NAT mode, the guest network interface is assigned to the IPv4 
    range 10.0.x.0/24 by default where x corresponds to the instance 
    of the NAT interface +2. So x is 2 when there is only one NAT 
    instance active. In that case the guest is assigned to the 
    address 10.0.2.15, the gateway is set to 10.0.2.2 and the name 
    server can be found at 10.0.2.3.

    If, for any reason, the NAT network needs to be changed, this 
    can be achieved with the following command:

    VBoxManage modifyvm "VM name" --natnet1 "192.168/16"
    
    This command would reserve the network addresses from 
    192.168.0.0 to 192.168.254.254 for the first NAT network 
    instance of "VM name". The guest IP would be assigned to 
    192.168.0.15 and the default gateway could be found at 
    192.168.0.2.


Seems that the default, NAT mode, is what I need and always had.
Is it still active? Yes, because 
`VBoxManage showvminfo "Windows XP" --machinereadable` 
says (among others)::

  natnet1="nat"
  
Which is the same as for a newly created VM.  

Time to learn about 
`VBoxManage <http://www.virtualbox.org/manual/ch08.html#idp18579328>`_.


