================================
20130504 (Saturday, 04 May 2013)
================================

Miscellaneous
-------------

- :ref:`watch_tim` caused an error "The database backend does not 
  accept 0 as a value for AutoField." when TIM wrote a changelog for 
  `PAR:0000000`.
  
- Adding a new account in :ref:`welfare.accounts.Accounts`
  caused an internal server error `DoesNotExist`.
  
- :ref:`welfare.pcsw.ClientsTest` produced a traceback
  `'NoneType' object has no attribute 'strip'` for Clients 
  with national_id is None.
  
- New actions MoveUp and MoveDown, renderable in a column "move_buttons".
  Firs use case is :ref:`welfare.debts.EntriesByBudget`

- `auto_fit_column_widths` was ignored when a table was being 
  displayed as the main grid of a window.
  The code to generate the js code for viewConfig was duplicated,
  viewConfig  was generated once for the GridPanel subclass 
  definition and a second time when instantiating a slave grid. 
  Removed the second time.

TODO
----

- jobs.Overview : Seitenwechsel gibt zwischen die verschiedenen Kategorien (Majorés, Intern, usw.)
- Duplizieren ist total buggy

- Ausdruck: 

  - Kontaktangaben: da steht immer Komma am Ende.
  - Tabelle Guthaben, Schulden, Verpflichtungen : hier fehlt die Kolonne "Monatsrate".
  - Unter dieser Tabelle eine weitere Tabelle "Gerichtsvollzieher", in der nur GV-Schulden sind.

- Merge the few_countries and few_cities fixtures into demo
- Convert all_countries to use data from python-babel
- Sequenced : action up and down
- accounts : optionally with automatic seqencing (ref not visible/used)

- `pcsw_demo_tests.py` : 
  "/choices/pcsw/ContactsByClient/company?type=1&query=mutu got 5 rows instead of [2]"
