==============================
20130505 (Sunday, 05 May 2013)
==============================

:mod:`atelier.fablib` : The `checkin` command now checks whether a 
blog entry exists after displaying `hg st` and asking whether to 
checkin. The advantage is that I can now run "pp ci" just to 
see the `hg st` of each project. As long as I answer "n" to the 
confirmations everybody is happy.

bug fixed:
:menuselection:`Site --> About` didn't display
the application's version.
Idem for the :srcref:`/lino/lino/templates_jinja/base.html` 
template.

:menuselection:`Site --> About` now also shows the sourcecode 
timestamps for django, atelier, djangosite and north.

Ausdruck eines Budgets:

- Tabelle "Guthaben, Schulden, Verpflichtungen" : 
  hier fehlte die Kolonne "Monatsrate".

TODO
----

- jobs.Overview : Seitenwechsel gibt zwischen die verschiedenen Kategorien (Majorés, Intern, usw.)
- Duplizieren ist total buggy

- Ausdruck: 

  - Kontaktangaben: da steht immer Komma am Ende.
  - Unter der Tabelle "Guthaben, Schulden, Verpflichtungen" eine 
    weitere Tabelle "Gerichtsvollzieher", in der nur GV-Schulden sind.

- Merge the few_countries and few_cities fixtures into demo
- Convert all_countries to use data from python-babel
- Sequenced : action up and down
- accounts : optionally with automatic seqencing (ref not visible/used)

- `pcsw_demo_tests.py` : 
  "/choices/pcsw/ContactsByClient/company?type=1&query=mutu got 5 rows instead of [2]"

- write unit tests to test the plain ui. 
  The best place would be a tested document with a Django test client.
  But how to instantiate a Django test client from a testcase which 
  does *not* use a test database but the project's demo database?
