================================
20130511 (Saturday, 11 May 2013)
================================

Menu command to edit `debts_master_budget` (continued)
------------------------------------------------------

The new `check_menu` tests where useful for the benedictine work of 
adding `user_level='admin'` requirements to many configuration tables 
which until now were invisible to non-adminstrators only because 
:class:`lino_welfare.Site` used the obsolete paradigm of hiding these 
menus completely for non-administrators.

:meth:`lino.core.menus.Menu.add_item_instance` didn't filter the 
`Site Parameters` command for non-administrators.
:meth:`lino.core.actors.Actor.get_view_permission` 
no longer calls the actor's default action's `get_view_permission` 
method,
but instead this is done by 
:meth:`lino.core.actors.BoundAction.get_view_permission`.


No page breaks within tables
----------------------------

Solved the following user request:

- jobs.Overview : Seitenwechsel zwischen die verschiedenen Kategorien 
  (Majorés, Intern, usw.)
  
The solution was to simply have the
:meth:`table <lino.utils.appy_pod.Renderer.insert_table>` 
template function
insert a table style with a `may-break-between-rows` 
property set to "false"`. Only 3 lines of code::

    table_style_name = str(ar.actor)
    st = add_style(name=table_style_name, family="table",parentstylename="Default")
    st.addElement(TableProperties(align="margins", maybreakbetweenrows="0"))

I might make this configurable per 
:class:`lino.core.tables.AbstractTable`,
but at the moment I don't see any problem with having this 
for all (Lino-generated) tables.


TODO
----

- wie sagt man Schuldnerberater in FR? Médiateur de dettes
  (Prüfen, wie ein Ausdruck Budget in FR aussieht)

- Ausdruck Budget: bei Kontaktangaben steht immer ein Komma am Ende.
  N.B.: nur wenn weder Telefon noch E-Mail angegeben ist.

- `pcsw_demo_tests.py` : 
  "/choices/pcsw/ContactsByClient/company?type=1&query=mutu got 5 rows instead of [2]"

- Merge the few_countries and few_cities fixtures into demo
- Convert all_countries to use data from python-babel
- get docs work on readthedocs. 
  at least the intersphinx links are breaking things.

