===============================
20130521 (Tuesday, 21 May 2013)
===============================

- Official release of Lino and Lino-Welfare on PyPI.

- a bug in :mod:`lino.modlib.countries.fixtures.few_cities`:
  caused French designations of cities like Mons and Liège 
  to be ignored.

- Choosing :menuselection:`Concepts --> Places` in belref 
  caused all places to show up.
  :meth:`lino.core.tables.TableRequest.parse_req` now gives a 
  hard-coded default value of `limit=15`.


- Miguel Grinberg gives a good summary of what "RESTful" 
  actually means in his blog entry 
  `Designing a RESTful API with Python and Flask
  <http://blog.miguelgrinberg.com/post/designing-a-restful-api-with-python-and-flask>`_.
  
PublicSecurityNumbers instance has no attribute 'PublicSecurityNumbers'  
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

A typo bug caused by the internal conversion in 
:mod:`lino_welfare.modlib.cbss.tx25` had slipped through the 
test suite. A super efficient way to test this is to check 
whether each Tx25 of the demo database has at least one row of 
result::

    for obj in cbss.RetrieveTIGroupsRequest.objects.all():
        msg = "%s has no result" % obj
        self.assertNotEqual(obj.Result(ses).get_total_count(),0,msg)
        
The challenge was: the problem is actually being reproduced only with 
our private collection of Tx25 requests. 
This collection is private because it contains data about real people. 
Currently I must remember to run the test suite also manually in a
project directory which loads these non-public xml files.
TODO: how to integrate optional private test suites into an 
open source project?

Internals: changed `print_action` to `do_print`.
