==================================
20130605 (Wednesday, 05 June 2013)
==================================

Miscellaneous
-------------

Added a test case to 
:ref:`faggio.tested.faggio`
and some feast days to 
:mod:`lino_faggio.fixtures.eiche`,
added some doctests to 
:mod:`lino.modlib.cal.utils`,
added a simple doctest
`tests.UtilsTests.test_cal_utils`
on that module to Lino test suite...
all this to reproduce a tiny one-day bug 
in :func:`lino.modlib.cal.utils.when_text`
which I discovered yesterday while releasing 
Lino-Welfare 1.1.7.

:func:`atelier.sphinxconf.configure` now 
automatically adds the intersphinx entries 
for projects managed in this atelier.
(The above link to
:ref:`faggio.tested.faggio`
didn't work because :mod:`lino_faggio` 
wasn't yet in the list of projects because this list was still 
hard-coded).


Weiter mit Lino-Faggio
----------------------

Die folgenden Punkte sind jetzt geregelt (aber noch nicht veröffentlicht):

- Jeder Kurs hat eine maximale Anzahl Plätze. Neues Feld.
  Renamed `max_occurences` to `max_events`
  New field `Course.max_participants`.
  
- New parameter `participants_only` to 
  :class:`lino.modlib.school.models.Enrolments`
  
- Felder "beginnt um" und "endet um" fehlen in Detail-Fenster

- In "Schule --> Kurse" - erste Kolonnen sollten nicht anklickbar
  sein (oder zum Detail führen)
  
- Startseite (ActiveCourses) : stornierte Einschreibungen nicht mitrechnen. 
  Anzahl freier Plätze anzeigen.
  
- Button "Druckvorlage bearbeiten"


Kosmetik
--------

Fixed an old bug: when there is a checkbox in a parameter panel whose 
default value is True (checked), then 
it was not possible to check it back after having it 
unchecked.

Cause seems to be a bug in ExtJS 3.3.1 : 
Checkbox fields don't 
mark their form as dirty when check is fired.
Or more precisely: form.Field.isDirty() still returns false in 
such a case.

Added "force_dirty" parameter to 
`Lino.MainPanel.add_param_values()`
to work around this.

While I was there, I also fixed another old problem:
ChoiceList comboboxes with `blank=True` didn't display a blank choice.
Now they do.
:class:`lino.ui.elems.ChoiceListFieldElement`

And because all good things are three, I fixed a 
third old bug: the permalink of a window didn't preserve whether the 
parameter panel was visible or not.
New variable `URL_PARAM_SHOW_PARAMS_PANEL`
in :mod:`lino.core.constants`.
