=================================
20130704 (Thursday, 04 July 2013)
=================================


About Content Security Policy
-----------------------------

I read the article 
`Bodyguard für Webseiten
<http://www.heise.de/security/artikel/XSS-Bremse-Content-Security-Policy-1888522.html>`_.
which explains Content Security Policy
for people like me.
It also mentions the
`XSS Filter Evasion Cheat Sheet
<https://www.owasp.org/index.php/XSS_Filter_Evasion_Cheat_Sheet>`_.

I then asked Google to find 
`django-csp
<http://django-csp.readthedocs.org>`_
a model-less Django "app"
which adds Content-Security-Policy headers to 
Django applications.
It works using a middleware and some decorators.
Especially the `configuration
<http://django-csp.readthedocs.org/en/latest/configuration.html>`_
is well done.
It starts by stating: 
"`Content-Security-Policy <http://www.w3.org/TR/CSP/>`_ 
 is a complicated header. There are many values you may need to tweak 
 here."

CSP is important for applications that accept arbitrary 
input from anonymous users.



Uncaught TypeError: Cannot read property 'main_item' of null
------------------------------------------------------------

Dieser JS-Fehler kam manchmal, wenn man als jemand anderer gearbeitet 
hatte und dann zurück als "ich selbst" schalten wollte.
Wenn Permalink nicht ermittelbar
weil `Lino.current_window` nicht definiert ist, 
dann soll er ja trotzdem wenigstens umschalten und dann eben 
auf die Startseite springen.


Updated DavLink signature
-------------------------


More updates in documentation for DavLink:
:doc:`/davlink/index`, 
:doc:`/davlink/usage`
and
:doc:`/davlink/client`.

Re-built a new self-signed `DavLink.jar` file included with Lino 
because the old one had expired.

TODO: automate the signature update and run it with every release.

Small changes to welfare, patrols and faggio
--------------------------------------------

I checked in some small changes to welfare, patrols and 
faggio. 


Updated demo sites on lino-framework.org
----------------------------------------

Updated the :doc:`demo sites </demos>` on `lino-framework.org`.

This made me discover a bug:
the `get_auth_middleware` and `authenticate` 
in :mod:`lino.utils.auth` functions
are indeed necessary, and they needed a 
bugfix for when :attr:`auth_middleware
<lino.ui.Site.auth_middleware>`.

TODO: 

- Add a test case that would have detected this 
  bug. This view is being used only when not remote http auth.
  
- Check with Joe whether there is a better solution for his problem
  than :attr:`auth_middleware <lino.ui.Site.auth_middleware>`.


requirements with both `user_groups` and `user_level`
-----------------------------------------------------

Fixed the behaviour with requirements having 
both `user_groups` and `user_level`.

Melanie cannot see :menuselection:`Configuration --> DSBE --> Fonctions`.


        When `user_groups` is not specified, 
        then the profile's default level (`UserProfile.level`) 
        is being tested, otherwise the userlevel for the group 
        membership.
        E.g. `dd.required(user_level='manager',user_groups='integ')` 
        will pass when `profile.level` is "user" and `profile.integ_level` is "manager"

Startup signals
---------------

The :mod:`lino_welfare` test suite had a failure which occured only 
when running certain combinations of cases within a same runner. 
The following two commands worked::

  python manage.py test lino_welfare.DemoTest
  python manage.py test lino_welfare.QuickTests 
  
But running them together fails::

  python manage.py test lino_welfare.QuickTests lino_welfare.DemoTest

This was complex. 
For example I didn't yet know that Django creates the test 
database and loads any test fixtures *before* calling the setUp() 
method.



Added a new method `lino.core.actors.Actor.clear_handle` 
and manually call it in the database_ready handler 
which configures the dynamic columns of
:class:`UsersWithClients
<lino_welfare.modlib.pcsw.models.UsersWithClients>`:

When an actor has dynamic columns which depend on database 
content, then its layout handle must not persist between 
different Django test cases because a handle from a first
test case may refer to elements which no longer exist in a 
second test case.

While trying to understand these reasons,
I started a new document :ref:`lino.signals`.

