=================================
20130706 (Saturday, 06 July 2013)
=================================

Budget-Einträge eingeben:

- die erste Zeile hatte unlogischerweise einen Up-Button
  und die letzte einen Down-Button. Jetzt nicht mehr.
- Statt der Wörter "Up" und "Down" sieht man jetzt zwei grüne Pfeile.
- in "Verpflichtungen" und "Vermögen" fehlten die move_buttons


How to see the java console of an applet
----------------------------------------

It took me some time to figure out that `jconsole` is **not** 
the right thing to see the java console output of an applet running 
in a browser.
The following thread led me to enlightment:
`IcedTea - how to show the applet console..?
<http://stackoverflow.com/questions/8157432/icedtea-how-to-show-the-applet-console>`__

So the simple answer is *one of the following*::

  $ tail -f ~/.icedtea/log/java.stderr 
  $ tail -f ~/.icedtea/log/java.stdout
  $ tail -f ~/.icedtea/log/java.stderr ~/.icedtea/log/java.stdout
  $ multitail ~/.icedtea/log/java.stderr ~/.icedtea/log/java.stdout
  
  
Allowing DavLink applet to store preferences
--------------------------------------------

Now that I can finally read the Java console, I can start with 
some real problem: DavLink obviously doesn't yet work when it 
is being used from a Linux client.
Let's get that running.

The console says::

    WARNING: Couldn't flush system prefs: java.util.prefs.BackingStoreException: /etc/.java/.systemPrefs/lino create failed.
    
Reaction::    

    $ sudo mkdir /etc/.java/.systemPrefs/lino
    
Now it says::    

    WARNING: Couldn't flush system prefs: java.util.prefs.BackingStoreException: java.io.FileNotFoundException: /etc/.java/.systemPrefs/lino/prefs.tmp (Permission denied)
    
Reaction::    

    $ sudo chgrp www-data /etc/.java/.systemPrefs/lino
    $ sudo chmod g+ws /etc/.java/.systemPrefs/lino

Now that part works.    
To see what the applet wrote to your preferences::

    $ less /etc/.java/.systemPrefs/lino/davlink/prefs.xml 

Next problem is (when I try to open an URL ending with `.odt`) 
that it still says "java.lang.RuntimeException: 
No launcher defined for extension 'odt'".
Theoretically it should find `libreoffice` automatically.

