===============================
20130714 (Sunday, 14 July 2013)
===============================

Continued on Lino-Faggio
------------------------

- Added new table :ref:`faggio.sales.InvoiceablePartners`
- Added a new tab  `sales.InvoiceablesByPartner` to detail window 
  of :ref:`faggio.contacts.Partners`.
  
Miscellaneous
-------------

- :func:`lino.core.dbutils.navinfo` now also works on lists.

Linking to multilingual userdocs
--------------------------------

added `faggio` to the `intersphinx_mapping` of this blog so that 
the above links to the userdocs work. Or at least they are now 
clickable and get their text from the actor's label.
  
TODO: urls of intersphinx links to multilingual userdocs still have a 
problem: should the base language (usually 'en', but 'fr' 
for welfare) be at the root 
(e.g. `http://welfare-user.lino-framework.org`
or like the other languages in a subdirectory
(e.g. `http://welfare-user.lino-framework.org/en`?
I'd prefer the former, but the language selector html then needs 
to become more intelligent. It currently does::
  
    {%- for lng in ('de','fr') %} 
    {%- if lng == language %}
      {{lng.upper()}}
    {%- else %}
      <a href="{{pathto("../"+lng+"/"+pagename)}}">{{lng.upper()}}</a> 
    {%- endif %}
    {%- endfor %} 
    
Probably something like::
    
    {%- for lng in settings.SITE.languages %} 
    <a href="{{pathto(lng.url_from(lng,pagename))}}">{{lng}}</a> 
    {%- endfor %} 
    
A complex queryset
------------------

Two last pieces are missing in :ref:`faggio.sales.InvoiceablePartners` 
before it's time for a *visite de chantier*:

The current implementation is rather unefficient because it 
retrieves all partners and issues two SQL statements per partner to 
determine whether a partner has some invoiceable::

    @classmethod
    def get_data_rows(self,ar):
        qs = settings.SITE.modules.contacts.Partner.objects.all()
        lst = []
        for obj in qs:
            if Invoiceable.get_invoiceables_count(obj) > 0:
                lst.append(obj)
        return lst

I tested the following code snippets in the demo database using::

    python setup.py test -s tests.BlogTest.test_20130714

Test case setup:    

>>> import os
>>> os.environ['DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE'] = 'lino_faggio.settings.test'
>>> from lino.runtime import *
>>> from lino import dd
>>> from django.db import models
>>> from django.db.models import Q

The primitive implementation found 38 partners:

>>> sales.InvoiceablePartners.request().get_total_count()
38

The question then was: 
how to get the same restul using a single SQL statement?

>>> qs = settings.SITE.modules.contacts.Partner.objects.all()
>>> qs.count()
88

>>> from lino.modlib.auto.sales.models import Invoiceable
>>> flt = Q()
>>> for m in dd.models_by_base(Invoiceable):
...     subquery = m.objects.filter(invoice__isnull=True).values(m.invoiceable_partner_field+'__id')
...     flt = flt | Q(id__in=subquery)
>>> qs = qs.filter(flt)
>>> qs.count()
38

Note that the above code is no longer being tested
because I removed the corresponding line 
from :srcref:`tests/__init__.py`
when the solution was found.

And the last missing piece: added a 
:class:`Create 
Invoice <lino.modlib.auto.sales.models.CreateInvoiceForPartner>`
action to :ref:`faggio.sales.InvoiceablePartners`.

Works like a charm!
And these last pieces took me less than one hour!
(After one day of family trip to Murika beach...)
And this morning I estimated that this would take me a whole day!
Lino is really cool! 



