==================================
20130717 (Wednesday, 17 July 2013)
==================================


Update your :meth:`get_installed_apps <lino.ui.Site.get_installed_apps>`
------------------------------------------------------------------------

After yesterday's changes, some tests were failing 
because :mod:`lino.ui` is no longer automatically being 
yielded by :meth:`lino.ui.Site.get_installed_apps`.

This change was necessary because otherwise it was impossible 
to override the "ui" app
(and :mod:`lino_welfare` now does exactly that).

This forced me to tidy up a few things.
I decided that :mod:`lino.ui` is no longer an app. 
The models SiteConfig, HelpText and TextFieldTemplate 
and some system fixtures and tests
are now defined in a new module :mod:`lino.modlib.system`.
References to these models have now the app_label "system" and no longer "ui".

The :mod:`lino.ui` module remains, but it is no longer a Django app. 
It is an important core module.
:class:`lino.ui.Site` is the base for all Lino Site classes.
The separation between :class:`lino.Site` and 
:class:`lino.ui.Site` is currently not important. 
It exists theoretically in case one day somebody comes who wants 
Lino, but wants to write her own user interface.

Existing Lino applications must add :mod:`lino.modlib.system`
to the list of apps yielded by 
:meth:`lino.ui.Site.get_installed_apps`.

More detailed instructions in :doc:`/changes`.


Klientengespräche und Gäste in Lino-Welfare (weiter)
----------------------------------------------------

So. Nachdem wir die oben beschriebenen "kleinen technischen Details" 
geregelt haben, können wir weitermachen mit dem Empfangsmodul bzw. 
den Neuerungen im Kalendermodul.

:ref:`welfare.cal.Calendar` hat jetzt ein neues Feld 
`invite_client`, welches für Klientengespräche angekreuzt ist
(zumindest in der Demo-Datenbank. Produktionsdaten nach Release manuell 
anpassen).

Die Demo-Termine hatten keinen Klienten. Jetzt wohl.

Die Tabelle der Gäste eines Termins hat jetzt ein Detail-Layout.

CreateMail didn't work. 

New setting :attr:`lino.ui.Site.demo_email` used by
:mod:`lino.modlib.system.fixtures.demo` 
and
:mod:`lino_welfare.fixtures.demo` 

Lino-Welfare has two new SiteConfig fields client_guestrole and team_guestrole.

In der Demo-Datenbank gibt es jetzt sinnvolere Gastrollen. 
"Reiseführer" und "Teilnehmer" sind raus.
Neue Rollen sind "Besucher" und "Kollege". 
Von der Gastrolle hängt die Formulierung der Einladung ab.

TODO: Templates "Visitor.eml.html" und "Colleague.eml.html"

`jinja_templates` directories versus `config` directories
---------------------------------------------------------

Until now, all Jinja templates were in 
`jinja_templates` directories
while "config files" 
(such as `.odt` templates for :mod:`lino.mixins.printable`) 
were in `config` directories.
Now these trees are merged:
existing applications must rename each `jinja_templates` directory 
to `config` 
(or, if a sibling `config` directory already exists, 
merge the `jinja_templates` content to `content`).

These directory trees work like Django's `templates` loading algorithm
but with subtle differences, the biggerst one being that you can 
have "per-setting" and "local" config trees.

For both types of files Lino has a separate algorithm to load these 
trees at startup. 
These algorithms are in :mod:`lino.core.web`
for Jinja templates and in 
:mod:`lino.utils.config` for config files directories.

