=================================
20130718 (Thursday, 18 July 2013)
=================================

- In :menuselection:`Klient --> Detail --> Kalender` haben wir jetzt 
  neben den Terminen auch die Anwesenheiten (:ref:`welfare.cal.GuestsByPartner`).
  
- Aktionen "Checkin" und "Checkout" sind jetzt von jedem Gast aus verfügbar.

- Neues Filterkriterium "Klient" in Globalsicht aller Termine 
  (:ref:`welfare.cal.Events`):
  
- Started user documentation page  
  :ref:`welfare.reception`.
  

SEPA is coming
--------------

There are only 197 days until the SEPA migration end date 
(01/02/2014).
It's time for me to dive into this because 
:mod:`lino.modlib.finan` should of course 
be able to generate payment orders based 
on the registered purchase invoices and communicate them to the bank.

- http://www.sepabelgium.be 
  ► `Virements <http://www.sepabelgium.be/fr/node/63>`_
  ► `Les virements et SEPA <http://www.sepabelgium.be/fr/node/228>`_
  ► `Shortcut to The SEPA Credit Transfert Scheme <http://www.sepabelgium.be/fr/node/199>`_:
  "With the launch of the SEPA Credit Transfer, EU banks are the 
  first in the world to deploy the global UNIFI (ISO 20022) XML message 
  standard for mass euro payment transactions."

Another more detailed document (FeBelFin, 
`Message XML pour l’ordre de virement --
Directives d’implémentation Version 1.3
<http://www.febelfin.be/sites/default/files/files/Astandard-credittransfer-XML-v13-FR.pdf>`_) says:

    La description des modèles de document UNIFI en XML est réalisée au sein de schémas. Un
    schéma utilise un langage de description spécifique (XSD). Les schémas permettent de décrire les
    balises qui sont présentes dans le document, la structure et l’enchaînement de ces balises
    (hiérarchie des balises) ainsi que les codes autorisés pour certaines données, le nombre
    d’occurrences possibles, la présence obligatoire ou facultative de certaines données...
    Le XSD général pour pain.001.001.02 peut être obtenu auprès de www.iso20022.org > Catalogue
    of UNIFI Messages > Payments > Payment Inititation > CustomerCreditTransferInitiationV02
    Un fichier qui contient un message XML pain.001.001.02 suit la structure suivante::
    
        <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
        <Document xmlns="urn:iso:std:iso:20022:tech:xsd:pain.001.001.02"
          xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance">
          <pain.001.001.02>
            message contenu...
          </pain.001.001.02>
        </Document>

Yes, that's it! It's the XSD I want! 
`ISO 20022 Payments messages <http://www.iso20022.org/payments_messages.page>`_.
They call it "CustomerCreditTransferInitiation".

But oops, that file appearently isn't available at the moment.

In fact... where other payment messages have a link "Schema" 
to a .zip containing an .xsd file, 
They say "To be provided by CBI".
Where CBI stands for "Corporate Banking Interbancario"
(according to 
`Message Definition Report - Part 1
<http://www.iso20022.org/documents/general/Payments_AFI_MDR_January2013.zip>`_).

After some time these problems vanished and I could download 
the :file:`pain.001.001.05.xsd` 
file from the official place
http://www.iso20022.org/payments_messages.page  

  
Found also an older versions :file:`pain.001.001.02.xsd`
from a 
`blog entry <http://wiki.xmldation.com/General_Information/ISO_20022/pain.001>`_

Started new module :mod:`lino.utils.xmlgen.sepa`.

