=================================
20130720 (Saturday, 20 July 2013)
=================================

Two subtle bugs
---------------

:mod:`lino_welfare.fixtures.demo` had a problem when it was together 
with :mod:`lino.modlib.countries.fixtures.be`. It said
"MultipleObjectsReturned: 
get() returned more than one City -- 
it returned 2! Lookup parameters were {'zip_code__exact': u'4780'}"
because both Recht and Sankt Vith have the same zip code 4780.

And another rather subtle pitfall which took me some time to find:

Users complained that when 
clicking on one of the RequestFields in 
:ref:`UsersWithClients <welfare.pcsw.UsersWithClients>`
to open the correspondingly filtered list of 
:ref:`Clients <welfare.pcsw.Clients>`,
Lino sometimes used some date in the past for the observed period.
This was because the columns of this table are being dynamically 
built when `database_ready`, and in that signal handler I use a 
variable `today` which holds the current date.
And that variable, I initialized it only once at the beginning of 
the handler. But of course I must evaluate it for each request.

Migration
---------

Updated :func:`lino_welfare.migrate.migrate_from_1_1_7`.

WARNING Abandoning with 57 unsaved instances from north.dpy_tmp_70496696:
- pcsw.Coaching [u'Begleitungsperiode endet bevor sie startet.'] (57 object(s) with primary key 3639, 6145, 6172, 6178, 6181, 6192, 6201, 6236, 6242, 6243, 7155, 7167, 7171, 7267, 7290, 7297, 7327, 7336, 7338, 7349, 7352, 7356, 7359, 7360, 7362, 7364, 7365, 7366, 7372, 7373, 7374, 7375, 7376, 7377, 7378, 7379, 7380, 7381, 7382, 7383, 7384, 7385, 7386, 7387, 7388, 7389, 7390, 7391, 7392, 7393, 7395, 7396, 7397, 7398, 7400, 7521, 7522)

This was because watch_tim set 
`end_date` of the primary coaching of non-coached clients
to `1990-01-01` instead of `Coaching.start_date`.

Updated the documentation about :ref:`dpy` which was very scattered.



Permission problem for Theresia
-------------------------------

A third subtle bug.

When logging in as Theresia on the Lino-Welfare demo, then I got 
a traceback

  No view permission for main panel of reception.ExpectedGuests.InsertFormPanel : 
  main requires {'auth': True, 'user_groups': u'office'}, 
  but actor cal.Guests requires {'user_level': u'admin', 'auth': True, 'user_groups': u'office'})

When I disabled this security check, then it generated the following code::

    Lino.reception.ExpectedGuests.insertPanel = Ext.extend(Lino.reception.ExpectedGuests.InsertFormPanel,{
      empty_title: "Neu Expected Guests",
      hide_navigator: true,
      ls_bbar_actions: [ { "itemId": "post", "menu_item_text": "Erstellen", "tooltip": "Datensatz erstellen und dann im Detail-Fenster \u00f6ffnen", "panel_btn_handler": function(panel){panel.save(null,true,'post')}, "text": "Erstellen", "overflowText": "Erstellen", "auto_save": false }, { "itemId": "poststay", "menu_item_text": "Erstellen ohne Detail", "tooltip": "Nach Erstellen des Datensatzes kein Detail-Fenster \u00f6ffnen", "panel_btn_handler": function(panel){panel.save(null,false,'poststay')}, "text": "Erstellen ohne Detail", "overflowText": "Erstellen ohne Detail", "auto_save": false } ],
      ls_url: "/reception/ExpectedGuests",
      action_name: "insert",
      initComponent : function() {
        this.ls_detail_handler = Lino.reception.ExpectedGuests.detail;
        this.ls_insert_handler = Lino.reception.ExpectedGuests.insert;
        Lino.reception.ExpectedGuests.insertPanel.superclass.initComponent.call(this);
      }
    });

which failed because a `Lino.reception.ExpectedGuests.InsertFormPanel` 
has not been defined.

The reason was a bug in Lino's requirement arithmethics: 
:meth:`lino.ui.elems.LayoutElement.loosen_requirements`
must treat `user_groups` differently than `user_level`.
There are probably more bugs like this, and the 
only real solution will be a class 
:class:`lino.utils.auth.Requirements`.
But that's not urgent.

And finally Theresia revealed another bug: the :menuselection:`Calendar` 
menu didn't suppress separators when they were useless 
(because there were no items to separate, 
which may happen due to permission requirements).


