===============================
20130722 (Monday, 22 July 2013)
===============================

ExpectedGuests, WaitingGuests, CreateClientEvent
------------------------------------------------

Worked on the :ref:`welfare.reception` module.

- :ref:`welfare.reception.ExpectedGuests`
  and
  :ref:`welfare.reception.WaitingGuests`
  start to be ready.

- New action "Appointment" (pcsw.Clients.create_event = CreateClientEvent())
  for checking in visitors without appointment.
  This action is currently declared `show_in_workflow`, so it is not in 
  the top toolbar but in the workflow buttons (Status tab).
    

How to mount a Samba share on a Linux client
--------------------------------------------

Q: I have a server named `jana` on my LAN and would like to 
tell Shotwell to store its photos on this server and to use the 
same pictures from different Linux clients.

On each client (here hoppel)::


    luc@hoppel:~$ mkdir jana
    luc@hoppel:~$ sshfs luc@jana:/smb ~/jana
    luc@jana's password: 
    
That's all. Verify that it worked::
    
    luc@hoppel:~$ ls jana
    audio  backup  collect  fotos  screencasts  tmp  to_print  videos
    luc@hoppel:~/jana$ 
    

Checkin in will reassign the event
----------------------------------

Worked on `CreateClientEvent`. 
Lino can now handle a client checkin without prior appointment.

The basic idea is to simply first create an appointment.

Let's say that Theresia is reception clerk and the 
client wants to see Alicia.

Theresia opens the Detail of the Client and 
clicks on "Appointment", selects 
Alicia as user, then OK.

Lino won't store directly Alicia as responsible user. 
That's because we have the rule: when somebody creates a calendar 
event for a colleague, then the colleague must first accept her 
responsibility for that event by clicking "Accept" in the 
"My assigned events" table.

But when a client is physically present and checked in, 
then that rule is not realistic, 
there will be a real-time solution.
That's why the reception clerk has the right 
to shortcut that responsibility.

New warning "Checkin in will reassign the event from Theresia to Alicia"

New field SiteConfig.client_calender needed because 
CreateClientEvent must set this, otherwise the Guest won't get created.

Reading Belgian eID cards
-------------------------

Re-vamped once more an old topic (see :blogref:`20130105`).

Most Lino-Welfare users, but especially those of the 
:ref:`welfare.reception` module,
need to electronically read Belgian eID cards of clients and 
store the data of these cards (name, birth date, picture,...) 
in their database.

This is currently working well thanks to Johan De Schutter's 
`eid-javascript-lib <http://code.google.com/p/eid-javascript-lib/>`_, 
which does exactly what we need:
a JavaScript class "CardReader" which I can instantiate and call it's `read` method.

But `eid-javascript-lib` is built on 
`Middleware <http://code.google.com/p/eid-mw>`_ 3.5 
and therefore causes a compatibility warning on computers with a 
newer MW (version 4.0. was released in January 2012).
Furthermore I'm afraid that Johan won't easily upgrade `eid-javascript-lib`
because in the `wiki <https://code.google.com/p/eid-mw/wiki/SDK40>`_ of the MW 
I read "This 4.0 eidmw SDK will break radically with 
the older 2.x and 3.5 SDK API's. (...) SDK 4.0 will not provide Java 
examples. Java has evolved over time and smartcard access is now 
provided by the JVM. Applets can do smartcard operations right in the 
JVM. This fact removes the need for client side middleware dependencies."

Note that I still don't really understand what the MW actually does:
it "offers components for using the Belgian eID on your computer.", 
but what does that mean concretely?

I just need an applet like the eid-javascript-lib, but one that doesn't 
depend on the old Middleware.

Should I write my own applet which accesses the smartcard directly?
Johan obviously started a project like that, `eid-nomw-sdk-applet
<https://code.google.com/p/eid-nomw-sdk-applet/source/list>`_,
but that was in September 2012 and I have no news since then.

Other projects:

- `eid-viewer <https://code.google.com/p/eid-viewer>`_
  seems to be the current GUI viewer.

- `commons-eid-viewer
  <https://code.google.com/p/commons-eid-viewer/>`_:
  Next-Gen eID viewer built upon the robust commons-eid classes.
  Only one commit "first experiments" from June 12, 2013
  Owner: .

- `commons-eid <https://code.google.com/p/commons-eid/>`_:
  The Commons eID Library provides a very generic library to handle 
  the Belgian eID. The library can be used both for desktop 
  applications as well as browser based applets.
  
This last one sounds interesting. But the README says::

    The following is required for compiling the Commons eID software:
    * Oracle Java 1.6.0_33
    * Apache Maven 3.0.4
    * Java Cryptography Extension (JCE) Unlimited Strength Jurisdiction Policy

So before continuing in this direction I'd have to learn about
`Maven <http://maven.apache.org/>`_.
Okay... not feeling ready for this right now...

Final sprint before release
---------------------------

The :ref:`welfare.reception` module isn't yet perfect, 
but tonight we plan to release Lino-Welfare 1.1.8.
See :ref:`welfare.changes`.

TODO:

- The confirmation "Client X started waiting for user Y" at the end of 
  CreateClientEvent mentions the wrong user when you use the Event 
  Detail to click on "checkin".
  
- Maybe a direct button "Checkin" on Client which create an 
  appointment without using the deviation via `assigned_to`.
  But also check whether the client truly doesn't have any appointment.
  
- Checkin action should check for valid eid card and issue a warning 
  when appropriate.
  
- more todo_tables

