==================================
20130731 (Wednesday, 31 July 2013)
==================================

Notizen, Lebensläufe, eID-Inhalt, Bescheinigungen und Briefe
------------------------------------------------------------

Bisher plante ich den Namen "Attestations" (Bescheinigungen) für das 
Modul, das uns noch fehlt im :ref:`welfare`.
Aber ich ahnte auch, dass die Benutzer diese Bezeichnung als irritierend
empfinden werden.

Jetzt habe ich einen besseren Namen gefunden: "Excerpts" (Auszüge).
Wobei es sich natürlich nicht um Kontoauszüge, 
sondern um "Auszüge aus unserer Datenbank" handelt:

    An Excerpt is a printable document that makes a 
    snapshot of the database at a given moment. 
    Examples of excerpts in 
    :ref:`welfare` are:

    - eID content
    - Simple attestations
    - Specialized attestations (like AMK which hold additional data)
    - CVs (an example of excerpt whose final document is editable)

    The system administrator can define ExcerptTypes, each of which 
    is associated to a given template.

Aber hackerzacker... warum tue ich diese "Auszüge" denn nicht einfach 
mit in die bestehenden Notizen rein?
Genau, das scheint mir jetzt (bis auf weiteres klar: wir brauchen keine 
neue Tabelle "Bescheinigungen". Die Bescheinigungen kommen mit in 
die "Notizen/Ereignisse" rein. 
Ausser die AMK, die kriegen eine eigene Tabelle. 
**Notizen sind sozusagen "alles, was nicht anderweitig in der Datenbank 
erfasst wird".**


Briefe drucken
--------------

Ich arbeite an einer kundenspezifischen Dokumentvorlage 
`Brief.odt`, die im lokalen Ordner `config/notes/Note` zu stehen kommt.

- New field `initials` in `lino.modlib.users.models.User`.

- cal.UpdateReminders on User caused a traceback
  'TableRequest' object has no attribute 'ui'
  
- New attribute 
  :attr:`lino.core.choicelists.ChoiceList.preferred_foreignkey_width`
  used by :class:`lino.ui.elems.ChoiceListFieldElement`.
  TODO: this doesn't yet work however. Lino seems to ignore it...

- `users.Users` now has an `active_fields` set to ``['partners']``.

- Fixed a bug which caused an AJAX error "users.MySettings has no url action u'' (possible values are ['put', 'post', 'detail', 'update_reminders'])" 
  after modifying an active field.
  
- Traceback when trying to create a Posting from a Note::

      File "/home/luc/hgwork/lino/lino/ui/views.py", line 113, in run_action
        rv = ar.bound_action.action.run_from_ui(elem,ar)
      File "/home/luc/hgwork/lino/lino/modlib/postings/models.py", line 179, in run_from_ui
        % dict(num=len(recs),elem=elem))
      File "/home/luc/hgwork/lino/lino/core/requests.py", line 117, in confirm
        def confirm(self,*args,**kw): return settings.SITE.ui.confirm(*args,**kw)
      File "/home/luc/hgwork/lino/lino/ui/base.py", line 198, in confirm
        cb = self.callback(*msgs)
      File "/home/luc/hgwork/lino/lino/ui/base.py", line 225, in callback
        msg = msgs[0]
    IndexError: tuple index out of range
    
- :meth:`lino.modlib.contacts.models.ContactRelated.contact_person_choices` 
  no longer returns an empty list when company is empty. 
  When company is empty and contact_person not, then the related contact
  is a private person.
  
- Partner.address is no longer a method but a property. 
  The method is now `get_address`.
  
- Removed `lino.modlib.postings` from Lino-Welfare and 
  made :class:`lino.modlib.notes.models.Note` a 
  :mod:`lino.modlib.contacts.models.ContactRelated`. 
  This feature is not used in Eupen and made it rather complicated 
  to write a simple letter.

  Started migration method :func:`lino_welfare.migrate.migrate_from_1_1_8`

While I was there, I did something which nobody asked for:
moved the `Language` model from countries to a new app 
:mod:`lino.modlib.languages`.
This caused amazingly little work.

TODO: Discovered an internal bug: the "Checkin" link in workflow_buttons 
of AppointmentsByClient doesn't work.
It tries to call
`Lino.reception.AppointmentsByClient.checkin("ext-comp-1233",1)`
but this causes a Javascript error 
`Uncaught TypeError: Object #<Object> has no method 'checkin'`.



