===================================
20130801 (Thursday, 01 August 2013)
===================================

A bug in Lino's Javascript 
--------------------------

Yesterday I discovered an internal bug: 
the "Checkin" link in workflow_buttons 
of AppointmentsByClient doesn't work.
It tries to call
`Lino.reception.AppointmentsByClient.checkin("ext-comp-1233",1)`
but this causes a Javascript error 
`Uncaught TypeError: Object #<Object> has no method 'checkin'`.

This bug is due to the changes on
:blogref:`20130723` or :blogref:`20130726`.


About the timtools project
--------------------------

timtools is still actively being used by all TIM users, but there has 
been no need for a release since version 1.0.5 in September 2010.
Before the next release it would need some work
after my moving from Windows to Linux.
I guess I'll have to run mkdist.py in a VirtualBox with a MS-Windows
to get py2exe running.
I now made a checkin with some minor corrections.


When to rebuild the `lino_xxx_xx.js` file
-----------------------------------------

At startup, Lino calls 
:func:`lino.utils.code.codetime`
and keeps this timestamp in a variable
`mtime` in the :class:`lino.ui.ExtUI` instance.

But after some changes some time ago 
this happened *before* everything was loaded.
For example the :mod:`lino.extjs` module wasn't yet.
Result was that a change in :mod:`lino.extjs` triggered a reload of 
the devserver but *not* a rebuild of 
the `lino_xxx_xx.js` file.
Took me some time to find this explanation.


