===================================
20130808 (Thursday, 08 August 2013)
===================================


Added the 
`ordering <https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/ref/models/options/#ordering>`_
model meta option to `contacts.Person.Meta`

Cleaned up some dependency issues between different lino_welfare apps.
Moved `pcsw.UsersWithClients` to `integ.UsersWithClients`,
`pcsw.IntegClients` to `integ.Clients`.

.. graphviz::

    digraph foo {
   
        pcsw -> isip
        pcsw -> jobs
        isip -> jobs
        isip -> integ
        jobs -> integ
        properties -> integ
    }


All this is not yet perfect.
TODO:
convert all App.verbose_name to their translations on startup?
store the App class object in `Site.modules`. 


Find an appointment
-------------------

The new virtual field `find_appointment` in 
:class:`lino_welfare.modlib.reception.models.Clients`
is cool.
It required some subtle javascript enhancements
for CalendarPanel.

- Replaced the one global Lino.eventStore and Lino.calendarStore
  by instance variables ot Lino.CalendarApp.
- possibility to call the calendar of another user via an action button 
  using subst_user
- new url variable URL_PARAM_PROJECT is used in order to have new 
  appointments attributed to the correct client when created via this 
  link.
- Show the ar.get_request_title() in the calendar view's main window 
  title, because otherwise it was difficult to guess whose calendar was being 
  displayed.

cal.Calendar is now Sequenced. The sequence is important because the 
first calendar is default value for new events.


Action API
----------

Another new virtual field `checkin_for` in 
:class:`lino_welfare.modlib.reception.models.Clients`
doesn't yet work.
The API for rendering buttons with action calls is getting very
complex and intransparent and would deserve a cleanup.

But after 22 hours in two days I make a checkin.
