=================================
20130818 (Sunday, 18 August 2013)
=================================

Which Version Control System for Lino?
--------------------------------------

Joe suggested to switch from Mercurial to Git.

Surfed about github, bitbucket gitourious and other DVCSs.
AFAICS the big questions are 
"Mercurial or Git?" and "Open-source or Commercial?".

=========== =============== ==================
\\          Mercurial       Git
=========== =============== ==================
commercial  bitbucket       github 
free        ?               gitourious
=========== =============== ==================

- "Gitorious is open source and freely available for download and 
  personal use, whereas GitHub is closed-source.
  (...)
  Gitorious is popular among open-source advocates (...)
  (`wikivs <http://www.wikivs.com/wiki/GitHub_vs_Gitorious>`_)

- "Mercurial is generally believed to be simpler and easier to learn than Git. 
  In turn, there is often the perception that Git is more flexible and powerful."
  (`wikivs <http://www.wikivs.com/wiki/Git_vs_Mercurial>`_)
  
- "If you want a quick easy to use DVCS in which you think simple branching 
  and versioning is all you will ever need, don't kill yourself with Git, 
  use Mercurial. But keep in mind most people you talk to in Mailing 
  lists, IRC, etc. will have experience with Git not Mercurial."
  (`stackoverflow <http://stackoverflow.com/questions/7024483/comparing-the-pros-and-cons-of-bitbucket-to-github>`_)

Yes i am an "open-source advocate" and believe that free software should 
not rely on a commercial infrastructure.
Despite this I am Google Code because at the time it was just so much 
better than any available free platform
and because I'm only convinced but not fanatic.

I chose Mercurial over Git mainly because Python uses it, because it 
is written in Python, but also because at that time I was still a 
Windows user.

So as it seems Joe is right, and I should indeed one day move from 
Mercurial to Git. 
And while we're there I also might move from 
Google to Gitourious because a free infrastructure 
is important to me.
Added this to the :doc:`/todo`.
 

Position in the waiting queue
-----------------------------

Added a new field "Position" to 
:class:`lino.modlib.reception.models.WaitingGuests`
as answer to the following user request:

- In Warteliste eine Info "Wieviele Leute sind vor mir dran?"

Also added some more German translations. 






