=================================
20130826 (Monday, 26 August 2013)
=================================

Lino's current default template for writing sales invoices isn't really 
beautiful. I started to work on a new one.

The new `Invoice.odt` is based on the existing `Letter.odt` for :mod:`lino_welfare`.

First I renamed 
`get_letter_margin_html`
:meth:`get_letter_margin_bottom_html <lino.ui.Site.get_letter_margin_bottom_html>`
and added a new method
:meth:`get_letter_margin_top_html <lino.ui.Site.get_letter_margin_top_html>`

Already the first line arises questions: 
where and how to specify the date of a letter.

Specifying the city in the date of a letter
-------------------------------------------

It seems that at least in Europe it is common to add the sending *place*
to the sending *date*:

- de: "Eupen, den 26. August 2013" or "Eupen, 26. August 2013"
- fr: Eupen, le 26 août 2013
- en_US: Eupen, August 26, 2013
- en_BR: Eupen, 26 August 2013

So in  `Invoice.odt` I specify::

  [sc.site_company.city.name], [tr("",de="den",fr="le")] [dtos(self.date)]
  
Which required a new optional positional argument for
:func:`north.dbutils.babelitem` to specify a default value which doesn't 
depend on the database's default language.

But oops, in Spanish they say "En Madrid, a 21 de enero de 2010" 
(found `here <http://forum.wordreference.com/showthread.php?t=1675033>`_).
It seems that `python-babel
<http://babel.pocoo.org/docs/dates/>`_
doesn't worry about the problem.

More research:

- Thread: `city + date in a formal letter <http://forum.wordreference.com/showthread.php?t=1675033>`_
- `How to Format a US Business Letter <http://www.dailywritingtips.com/how-to-format-a-us-business-letter/>`_
  by Ali Hale
  
- `Date in a Business Letter <http://www.ego4u.com/en/business-english/communication/business-letter/date>`_

- `Stadt, den Datum?!?!.. oder nur Stadt, Datum?? 
  <http://www.gutefrage.net/frage/stadt-den-datum-oder-nur-stadt-datum>`_


Shortcut functions for date formatting
--------------------------------------

Until now I used the 
following short-named functions when inserting dates into document 
templates::

  dtos   26.08.2013
  dtosl  Montag, 26.08.2013
  dtomy  August 2013

Where "l" stands for "long".

But `python-babel
<http://babel.pocoo.org/docs/dates/>`_
differentiates between "long" and "full", and my "long" corresponds to 
their "full".

To solve these naming clashes and still remain backwards compatible, 
I declare these functions obsolete and define a new series of 
short-named date formatting functions::

  fds(d) --> 26.08.2013
  fdm(d) --> 26. Aug 2013
  fdl(d) --> 26. August 2013
  fdf(d) --> Montag, 26. August 2013
  


Missing commas in :xfile:`linoweb.js`
--------------------------------------

Bug fixed:
IE doesn't like Javascript
expressions containing uselessly trailing commas
(as e.g. in `var obj = { a:1, }`).
This kind of typo in JS generated by Lino 
often passes undiscovered because I don't use that browser.
But Joe's users now noted such a comma and he fixed it and sent me a patch::

    Following is small fix, that fixes compatibility with IE10 
    (otherwise compatibility mode is required and there are some UI glitches 
    in compat mode)

    --- a/lino/extjs/linoweb.js     Sat Aug 24 03:43:43 2013 +0300
    +++ b/lino/extjs/linoweb.js     Mon Aug 26 01:54:17 2013 +0200
    @@ -1160,7 +1160,7 @@
       });
     Lino.DateTimeField = Ext.extend(Ext.ux.form.DateTime,{
       dateFormat: '{{settings.SITE.date_format_extjs}}',
    -  timeFormat: '{{settings.SITE.time_format_extjs}}',
    +  timeFormat: '{{settings.SITE.time_format_extjs}}'
       //~ hiddenFormat: '{{settings.SITE.date_format_extjs}} {{settings.SITE.time_format_extjs}}'
       });
     Lino.URLField = Ext.extend(Ext.form.TriggerField,{ 

Thank you, Joe. I applied your fix to trunk. 

Yes, when there will be more contributors, then Lino will definitively 
need a code repository with pull requests for this kind 
of contribution.





'ExtUI' object has no attribute 'build_site_cache'
--------------------------------------------------

Bug fixed:
The :class:`modlib.system.models.BuildSiteCache` action didn't work. 
It caused a server exception 'ExtUI' object has no attribute 
'build_site_cache'.



Github or Gitorious?
--------------------

Today I discovered the `Why is Github more popular than Gitorious?
<http://stackoverflow.com/questions/78991/why-is-github-more-popular-than-gitorious>`_
question on stackoverflow
which has been "closed as not constructive".
I didn't read half of the comments, especially also because 
it is probably obsolete.

But yes... the decision "Github or Gitorious?" seems to depend on the 
religious question about whether software should be free (of commercial 
interest) or not.
If I had do decide right now,  than I'd probably toss a coin...


