==================================
20130827 (Tuesday, 27 August 2013)
==================================

Testing the :mod:`dump2py <north.management.commands.dump2py>` command 
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The following log excerpts show that restoring the 
database using a dump made with `manage.py dumpdata --format py` 
took about 14 minutes, whereas 
the ``dump2py`` dump took only about 9 minutes to restore it.

::

    201308-27 04:13:35 INFO kernel : Started manage.py initdb b20130827_020101 (using testlino.settings) --> PID 13356
    201308-27 04:13:35 INFO kernel : This is Lino Welfare 1.1.9 using Lino 1.6.11, Jinja 2.6, Sphinx 1.2b1, python-dateutil 2.1, OdfPy ODFPY/0.9.6, docutil
    s 0.10, suds 0.4, PyYaml 3.10, Appy 0.8.3 (2013/02/22 15:29), Babel 0.9.6, djangosite 0.1.7, Django 1.5.1, Python 2.6.6.
    201308-27 04:13:35 INFO kernel : Languages: de, fr, nl. 27 apps, 94 models, 320 actors.
    201308-27 04:13:40 INFO dpy : Loading /var/log/lino/backups/b20130827_020101.py...
    201308-27 04:16:23 INFO dpy : Migrating from version 1.1.8 to 1.1.9:
    ...
    201308-27 04:26:25 INFO dpy : Saved 2536 instances.
    201308-27 04:26:25 INFO dpy : Trying again with 7244 unsaved instances.
    201308-27 04:27:11 INFO dpy : Saved 7244 instances.
    201308-27 04:27:11 INFO kernel : Done manage.py initdb b20130827_020101 (PID 13356)



    201308-27 04:32:22 INFO kernel : Started manage.py dump2py a (using testlino.settings) --> PID 13493
    201308-27 04:32:22 INFO kernel : This is Lino Welfare 1.1.9 using Lino 1.6.11, Jinja 2.6, Sphinx 1.2b1, python-dateutil 2.1, OdfPy ODFPY/0.9.6, docutils 0.10, suds 0.4, PyYaml 3.10, Appy 0.8.3 (2013/02/22 15:29), Babel 0.9.6, djangosite 0.1.7, Django 1.5.1, Python 2.6.6.
    201308-27 04:32:22 INFO kernel : Languages: de, fr, nl. 27 apps, 94 models, 320 actors.
    201308-27 04:32:22 INFO dump2py : Running <north.management.commands.dump2py.Command object at 0x1b4c450> to /usr/local/django/testlino/a.
    201308-27 04:33:31 INFO dump2py : Wrote 90932 objects to /usr/local/django/testlino/a/restore.py and siblings.
    201308-27 04:33:31 INFO kernel : Done manage.py dump2py a (PID 13493)



    201308-27 04:37:36 INFO kernel : Started a/restore.py (using testlino.settings) --> PID 13558
    201308-27 04:37:36 INFO kernel : This is Lino Welfare 1.1.9 using Lino 1.6.11, Jinja 2.6, Sphinx 1.2b1, python-dateutil 2.1, OdfPy ODFPY/0.9.6, docutils 0.10, suds 0.4, PyYaml 3.10, Appy 0.8.3 (2013/02/22 15:29), Babel 0.9.6, djangosite 0.1.7, Django 1.5.1, Python 2.6.6.
    201308-27 04:37:36 INFO kernel : Languages: de, fr, nl. 27 apps, 94 models, 320 actors.
    201308-27 04:37:41 INFO dpy : Source version is 1.1.9 : no migration needed
    ...
    201308-27 04:46:22 INFO main : Loaded 90932 objects
    201308-27 04:46:22 INFO kernel : Done a/restore.py (PID 13558)


This first test run on a production site caused some optimizations:

- Renamed `main.py` to :xfile:`restore.py`  

- Removed the `os.environ['DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE'] = '%s'` line 
  from the :xfile:`restore.py`.
  Which makes that you must now run it using 
  the :mod:`run <djangosite.management.commands.run>` command 
  and cannot simply run it using `python mydump/restore.py`.
  
  Advantage is that it works also on projects which add 
  special initialization in their `manage.py` file,
  and that you can restore the dump to another project without 
  modifying the :xfile:`restore.py` just by using other settings.
  
- The :xfile:`restore.py` now uses the `if __name__ == '__main__': main()` 
  construct 
  (explained `here <http://stackoverflow.com/questions/419163/what-does-if-name-main-do>`_)
  like any well-behaving Python script should do.
    
- The :mod:`run <djangosite.management.commands.run>` command 
  now also sets the `__file__` global variable and passes
  its own `globals()` to :func:`execfile` so that the invoked script can 
  use the `if __name__ == '__main__': main()` construct.
  
  
  
  
North and South
---------------

.. include:: /include/tellme.rst

Andrew Godwin has 
`merged his schema-alteration branch into Django.
<http://www.aeracode.org/2013/8/23/plan-comes-together>`_.
Which made me read the new overview about 
`Migrations
<https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/topics/migrations/>`_.

.. _South: http://south.aeracode.org/

Summary: what was called South_ is now an integral 
part of Django, 
and the :doc:`/about/lino_and_django` page gets 
a new item. And it is normal to ask:
 
  "Why should I use :ref:`north` to write my migrations?".

My personal choice remains :ref:`north`, because I am happy with it 
and cannot imagine to become even happier. 

For the moment I can see the following differences between
:ref:`north` and South_:

- North requires a "dump-upgrade-restore" workflow.
  The database must shut down during the migration. 
  Which means that life migrations are not possible.  
  
- North migrations work per :ref:`application <application>`, not 
  per *app*.  This makes the overal concept easier to understand, 
  and it allows the application developer to write really automatic 
  migrations which are easy to use by local system administrators.
  
- I have no idea whether South_ can handle Lino-specific 
  things like 
  :class:`BabelCharField <north.dbutils.BabelCharField>`, 
  :func:`inject_field <lino.core.inject.inject_field>`, 
  ...

While thinking about all this I updated the documentation pages about 
:ref:`datamig`, 
:ref:`backup` and 
:ref:`dpy`.


Hidden languages
----------------

Added new attribute :attr:`hidden_languages <north.Site.hidden_languages>`.
That's easier than using the `hide_languages` argument to 
:meth:`lino.core.auth.UserProfiles.reset`.

:mod:`lino.modlib.system.fixtures.demo` now respects this attribute
so that the demo database of :ref:`welfare` no longer offers a Dutch 
root user.

Fixed a layout bug which occured when 
:attr:`hidden_languages <north.Site.hidden_languages>`
was not `None`:
in a form layout the wrapper around a hidden bable field 
was still visible, creatin an empty space.

