=================================
20130830 (Friday, 30 August 2013)
=================================

- Added Enrolment.amount 
 
- "Confirm"-Aktion auf Enrolment druckt jetzt keine 
  Einschreibebestätigung mehr aus, sondern das ist lediglich eine interne 
  Bestätigung: Monique bestätigt, dass dieser Schüler an diesem Kurs zu 
  diesem Preis teilnehmen darf und fakturiert werden kann. Es gibt auch 
  einen Button "Alle bestätigen".
  
- Neues Feld "Fakturationsadresse"  pro Schüler.

- The "Confirm all" action on Enrolments in 
  :mod:`lino.modlib.courses.models`
  didn't work at first, I had to rediscover certain 
  possibilities of defining custom actions.

  Renamed `dd.AuthorRowAction` to `dd.AuthorAction`
  and `dd.RowAction` to `dd.Action`.
  
- Updated :ref:`djangosite` documentation and changed a few rather 
  internal function signatures.
  
- Instantiating a `djangosite.Site` no longer sets a trivial 
  default value for `SECRET_KEY`. 
  
  I started to understand that this "feature" which I added :blogref:`20130409` 
  might offend people who are more concerned about security than me.
  So I removed it again.
  And instead added trivial SECRET_KEY in certain :xfile:`settings.py` 
  files used for testing and documentation.
  
  On a production site I recommend to set this 
  either in the :ref:`djangosite_local.py <djangosite_local>` file::
  
     def setup_site(self):
        self.django_settings.update(SECRET_KEY='?~hdakl123ASD%#¤/&¤')

  This will set the same SECRET_KEY for all projects on that server.
  Or, if you prefer to use environment variables::
  
     import os
     def setup_site(self):
        self.django_settings.update(SECRET_KEY=os.environ.get('DJANGO_SECRET_KEY'))
