===================================
20130831 (Saturday, 31 August 2013)
===================================

Creating many invoices at once
------------------------------

Two days aga Roger asked "In :ref:`faggio.sales.InvoicesToCreate`, 
can't you add me a button to create and print all invoices at once?"
I answered "Yes that would be nice here, but don't expect too much 
because Lino can't yet do that".

First I had to set :attr:`cell_edit <lino.core.tables.AbstractTable.cell_edit>` 
to `False`. That was easy, but I knew the real problem was that the AJAX call 
`Lino.call_ajax_action` in :xfile:`linoweb.js`
didn't yet communicate to the server which rows were currently selected.

Well... now Lino can do it: 
The "Print" button of a 
:class:`CachedPrintable <lino.mixins.printable.CachedPrintable>`
now transparently handles the case when multiple rows are selected. 
If multiple rows are selected (which continues to be possible only when 
:attr:`cell_edit <lino.core.tables.AbstractTable.cell_edit>` is True),
then it will automatically build the printable cache for those objects 
who don't yet have it built,
then generate a single temporary pdf file which is simply a merge of 
these individual pdf documents.

- New modules :mod:`lino.utils.pdf` and :mod:`lino.utils.media`.

- Every :class:`lino.core.requests.BaseRequest` has now a new attribute `selected_pks`
- New name `URL_PARAM_SELECTED` in :mod:`lino.core.constants`
- New :meth:`lino.mixins.printable.BasePrintable.before_printable_build` because 
  invoices should register before being printed.
  
A special challenge was the fact that the rows of a 
`VirtualTable` usually 
don't have a primary key. 
`Lino.call_ajax_action` needs primary keys if we want it
to communicate to the server which rows were currently selected.

And :ref:`faggio.sales.InvoicesToCreate` *is* a virtual table.
But because this table groups invoiceables by partner and 
therefore will never display more than one row per partner,
we can use the Partner id 
as a virtual primary key.

That's why I added the new class methods 
:meth:`lino.core.actors.Actor.get_pk_field`
and
:meth:`lino.core.actors.Actor.get_row_by_pk`

Note also that 
:ref:`faggio.sales.InvoicesToCreate`
overrides the original
:class:`CachedPrintAction <lino.mixins.printable.CachedPrintAction>`.

A new dependency
----------------

Note that the above changes created a new dependency: `pyPdf`.
Updated :src:`/requirements.txt`.

(According to `his website <http://pybrary.net/pyPdf/>`_,
pyPdf's original author Mathieu Fenniak
has "stopped maintaining pyPdf, and a company named Phaseit has forked 
the project and continued development and maintenance with my blessing 
as pyPdf2". But his latest version is still on PyPI and works well.)


Changed API of actions
----------------------

I made a backwards incompatible change in :ref:`dev.actions`.
Existing applications who define actions must change the signature of 
the miscellaneous `run_from_` methods:
the "selected row" is no longer passed as a first positional argument,
but contained in a new `selected_rows` attribute of the `ar` argument.


Replace::

    def run_from_ui(self,obj,ar,**kw):
        ...

By::

    def run_from_ui(self,ar,**kw):
        obj = ar.selected_rows[0]
        ...

My apologies if this causes some work to others...
though afaik not many people have 
written custom actions until now, and if you have, I guess that you 
agree that this signature was strange.



Models
------

- Foo (Foues) : {{help_text}}

  Field

  Tables : Foos, FoosByBar, FoosWithUsers,...
  
Bar  Barres               id,name
