=====================================
20130903 (Tuesday, 03 September 2013)
=====================================

Configuring VAT-related things
------------------------------

Continued :blogref:`yesterday's work <20130902>`.
In fact we *don't want* to store this decision *per document*. 
All cases I know can be handled by storing it  *per VatRegime*: 

- :class:`lino.modlib.vat.models.VatRegimes` has now a custom 
  field `item_vat`
- :class:`lino.modlib.vat.models.TradeTypes` has now two custom 
  fields `price_field_name` and `price_field_label`,
  and a method :meth:`get_catalog_price <lino.modlib.vat.models.TradeType.get_catalog_price>`.

- Added two (tested) utility functions 
  :class:`lino.modlib.vat.utils.add_vat`
  and
  :class:`lino.modlib.vat.utils.remove_vat`.

- :func:`lino.modlib.vat.models.configure` is a cool new system to 
  specify configuration values. Works for me but is not mature.
  
And (finally!) the visible result of all this: :ref:`faggio` now 
produces invoices without VAT, simply by adding the following line
to its :meth:`lino.ui.Site.setup_choicelists` method::
  
        self.modules.vat.configure(default_vat_class='exempt')


newcomers.NewClients.param_defaults() returned invalid keyword 'observed_event'
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fixed a which occured even in the test suite.


Getting the user in a Pisa template
-----------------------------------

Joe sent in a small patch to allow access to current request when 
printing using Pisa, useful to get current user.

Joe, you suggested to use a variable name ``request`` to hold the 
Django request, but I think it is better to use the variable ``ar`` 
(for :class:`ActionRequest <lino.core.requests.ActionRequest>`) 
because this is also given for appy templates and because it 
has some more possibilities:

- `{{ar.request.user}}` : returns the user
- `{{ar.user}}` : returns the user
- `{{ar.subst_user}}` : None if user is acting as herself, otherwise 
  the substituted user
- `{{ar.get_user()}}` : Shortcut for `ar.subst_user or ar.user`

Wrote a new tutorial :ref:`lino.tutorial.pisa` to demonstrate and 
test this.

  
'Site' object has no attribute 'modules'  
----------------------------------------

Joe reported "I'm unable to run Lino with latest pypi versions of Lino, 
djangosite, North .... after upgrading everything I have to downgrade 
djangosite to 0.1.4. There is an error that site.modules is not defined."

To reproduce it, I create a virgin Python environment and try the 
:ref:`lino.tutorial.quickstart` tutorial::
  
  
    $ virtualenv t
    $ . t/bin/activate
    $ pip install lino
    $ cd ~/hgwork/lino/docs/tutorials/quickstart
    $ python manage.py initdb_demo --traceback
    
This produces indeed::    

    INFO Started manage.py initdb_demo --traceback (using mysite.settings) --> PID 7754
    INFO This is Lino Così 0.1 using djangosite 0.1.7, Django 1.5.2, Python 2.7.3, Babel 1.3, Lino 1.6.11, Jinja 2.7.1, Sphinx 1.2b1, python-dateutil 2.1, OdfPy ODFPY/0.9.6, docutils 0.11, suds (not installed), PyYaml 3.10, Appy 0.8.5 (2013/08/12 09:51).
    Traceback (most recent call last):
      File "/home/luc/tmp/t/local/lib/python2.7/site-packages/django/core/management/base.py", line 222, in run_from_argv
        self.execute(*args, **options.__dict__)
      File "/home/luc/tmp/t/local/lib/python2.7/site-packages/django/core/management/base.py", line 254, in execute
        self.validate()
      File "/home/luc/tmp/t/local/lib/python2.7/site-packages/django/core/management/base.py", line 280, in validate
        num_errors = get_validation_errors(s, app)
      File "/home/luc/tmp/t/local/lib/python2.7/site-packages/django/core/management/validation.py", line 35, in get_validation_errors
        for (app_name, error) in get_app_errors().items():
      File "/home/luc/tmp/t/local/lib/python2.7/site-packages/django/db/models/loading.py", line 166, in get_app_errors
        self._populate()
      File "/home/luc/tmp/t/local/lib/python2.7/site-packages/django/db/models/loading.py", line 72, in _populate
        self.load_app(app_name, True)
      File "/home/luc/tmp/t/local/lib/python2.7/site-packages/django/db/models/loading.py", line 96, in load_app
        models = import_module('.models', app_name)
      File "/home/luc/tmp/t/local/lib/python2.7/site-packages/django/utils/importlib.py", line 35, in import_module
        __import__(name)
      File "/home/luc/tmp/t/local/lib/python2.7/site-packages/djangosite/models.py", line 31, in <module>
        settings.SITE.startup()
      File "/home/luc/tmp/t/local/lib/python2.7/site-packages/djangosite/__init__.py", line 320, in startup
        self.do_site_startup()
      File "/home/luc/tmp/t/local/lib/python2.7/site-packages/lino/ui/__init__.py", line 669, in do_site_startup
        super(Site,self).do_site_startup()
      File "/home/luc/tmp/t/local/lib/python2.7/site-packages/lino/__init__.py", line 339, in do_site_startup
        startup_site(self)
      File "/home/luc/tmp/t/local/lib/python2.7/site-packages/lino/core/kernel.py", line 173, in startup_site
        self.modules.define(model._meta.app_label,model.__name__,model)
    AttributeError: 'Site' object has no attribute 'modules'
    INFO Done manage.py initdb_demo --traceback (PID 7754)

Thank you, Joe, for reporting this problem.

Another symptom in that environment::

    $ python setup.py test
    running test
    Traceback (most recent call last):
      File "setup.py", line 3, in <module>
        setup(**SETUP_INFO)
      File "/usr/lib/python2.7/distutils/core.py", line 152, in setup
        dist.run_commands()
      File "/usr/lib/python2.7/distutils/dist.py", line 953, in run_commands
        self.run_command(cmd)
      File "/usr/lib/python2.7/distutils/dist.py", line 972, in run_command
        cmd_obj.run()
      File "/home/luc/tmp/t/local/lib/python2.7/site-packages/distribute-0.6.24-py2.7.egg/setuptools/command/test.py", line 127, in run
        self.distribution.fetch_build_eggs(self.distribution.install_requires)
      File "/home/luc/tmp/t/local/lib/python2.7/site-packages/distribute-0.6.24-py2.7.egg/setuptools/dist.py", line 245, in fetch_build_eggs
        parse_requirements(requires), installer=self.fetch_build_egg
      File "/home/luc/tmp/t/local/lib/python2.7/site-packages/distribute-0.6.24-py2.7.egg/pkg_resources.py", line 588, in resolve
        raise VersionConflict(dist,req) # XXX put more info here
    pkg_resources.VersionConflict: (djangosite 0.1.7 (/home/luc/tmp/t/lib/python2.7/site-packages), Requirement.parse('djangosite==0.1.5'))

So it is time to make a new release.
But first answer the question: why did this error pass the test suites 
and make it into a released version?

Not the reason, but disturbing is the bug that the message 
"using djangosite 0.1.7, Django 1.5.2, ..."
didn't include the North version number.
This was in :meth:`north.north_site.Site`
Fixed.

Cleanup my :xfile:`__init__.py` files
-------------------------------------

After reading 
`5 Simple Rules For Building Great Python Packages
<http://axialcorps.com/2013/08/29/5-simple-rules-for-building-great-python-packages/?goback=%2Egde_101591_member_270039332#%21>`_
I started to move the `Site` classes out of :xfile:`__init__.py` into a 
separate file :file:`site.py`
In fact I have always been wanting that.

Application code needs no change since it continues to 
do ``from lino.ui import Site``.
The difference is just that it "looks better".

One side effect is that all my references in docs need an update

Need to change all :class:`lino.Site`
to :class:`lino.Site <lino.site.Site>`.

A new icon for external links
-----------------------------


Although I liked very much the wikipedia icon
for the "Open this panel in own window" link 
displayed behind every "main item header" 
(see :blogref:`20130823`)

Gerd now suggested another icon which looks even better.


Slave tables with more than 15 rows
-----------------------------------

Fixed a problem "Slave tables with more than 15 rows" reported by 
Gerd and Joe. 
Test case and description  in :ref:`cosi.tested`.


Difference between `lino.ui.Site` and `lino.Site`
-------------------------------------------------

I removed the split between `lino.ui.Site` and `lino.Site` 
which was historic and obsolete.

There is no longer a class `lino.ui.Site`, everything is in `lino.Site`.

Application code usually does 
``from lino.projects.std.settings import *``
and therefore needs no change.
But in case you copied some tutorial and have
``from lino.ui import Site``
then change this to 
``from lino import Site``.

Miscellaneous
-------------

- :ref:`welfare` : EventStates has no attribute "accepted"

