======================================
20130905 (Thursday, 05 September 2013)
======================================


Optimized the detail of :ref:`Reception --> Clients <welfare.reception.Clients>`.

- Changed the layout so that the photo is now relatively visible.
  
- :class:`lino.mixins.beid.BeIdCardHolder`:
  `eid_info` now adds the "Must read eID card!" message also when the 
  `card_valid_until` has passed. 
  And uses red background color when that message appears.
  And `card_valid_until` is bold when it has passed.

- the eid card fields are no longer disabled for 
  :ref:`UserLevels.admin`.
  (Ouch, that innocent ":ref:`UserLevels.admin`"
  inadvertently made me dive into writing documentation 
  about :ref:`permissions` though there are more urgent things to do...)

- New table :ref:`welfare.pcsw.AllClients` 
  shows all columns.
  Accessible for :ref:`UserLevels.admin` via 
  :menuselection:`Explorer --> ÖSHZ --> Klienten`.
  Use this for manually modifying eid card fields which are otherwise 
  nowhere.


The fields `started` and `stopped` of 
:ref:`welfare.jobs.Experience`
and
:ref:`welfare.jobs.Study`
are no longer MonthDields but normal DateFields.
  
- Gerd: "Manuelle Eingabe von Daten mit Punkt als Trenner geht nicht in 
  den Daten von den Berufserfahrungen und Ausbildungen."
  --
  "Stimmt, das war, weil das Monatsfelder waren. 
  Monatsfelder sind in der Datenbankwie normale Datumsfelder abgelegt, 
  haben aber einen speziellen DatePicker.
  Aber das funktionierte scheinbar nicht so richtig: 
  in der Tabellenansicht wurden trotzdem "normale" 
  Datumsfelder angezeigt, und beim Bearbeiten auch.
  Habe die vier Felder jetzt auf normale Datumsfelder gesetzt. 
  Jetzt kann man diese Daten auf den Tag genau anzeigen. 
  Aber im Lebenslauf wird trotzdem nur der Monat gedruckt."
  




FieldError at /api/jobs/ExperiencesByOffer
------------------------------------------

Fixed a bug that occured in :ref:`welfare.jobs.ExperiencesByOffer`.
"Cannot resolve keyword u'date_submitted' into field. Choices are: 
company, country, function, id, person, remarks, sector, started, stopped, title"

In fact the tables 
:ref:`welfare.jobs.ExperiencesByOffer`
and
:ref:`welfare.jobs.CandidaturesByOffer`
simply didn't work. Which never disturbed anybody because in Eupen they 
don't use :ref:`welfare.jobs.Offers`.

- My first use of the 
  `get_latest_by <https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/ref/models/options/#get-latest-by>`_
  meta option
  and the :meth:`django.db.models.query.QuerySet.latest` method.

- New document :ref:`welfare.tested.jobs`
- I rediscovered :mod:`atelier.doctest_utf8`


A specification sheet for :ref:`welfare`
----------------------------------------

- Gerd reported that an important document had vanised. 
  Here it is again: :ref:`welfare.whitepaper`.

User docs now as .pdf files
---------------------------
  
Hier ganz zwischendurch im Stress vor der Demo 
aus dem Ärmel geschüttelt mal was ganz Neues: 
erstmals kann man das komplette Benutzerhandbuch als druckbare pdf-Datei 
generieren.


- New fabric command ``fab pdf`` (See :mod:`atelier.fablib`) builds pdf 
  versions of the userdocs.
  
The first example is 
http://welfare-user.lino-framework.org/lino-userdocs.pdf

But there is still a lot to do:

- write useful content
- translations
- Infrastruktur (more tools to efficiently generate parts of the content)


A first problem is that the translations don't yet build. I get a 
LaTeX error message::

    ! Package inputenc Error: Unicode char \u8:ō not set up for use with LaTeX.

    See the inputenc package documentation for explanation.
    Type  H <return>  for immediate help.
     ...                                              
                                                      
    l.4895 ...]{Tables based on Rōles de participant}
                                                      }
    ? 

Termine erstellen
-----------------

- Wenn man versuchte, einen Termin für einen Klienten bei einem seiner 
  Begleiter zu machen, und wenn der Begleiter *kein Profil* hatte, dann 
  kam nach dem Klick auf OK scheinbar nichts (und unscheinbar ein 
  Traceback auf dem Server). Begleiter, die kein Benutzerprofil haben, 
  arbeiten nicht in Lino, also macht es keinen Sinn, für die einen Termin 
  in Lino zu erstellen. Für diese Begleiter zeigt Lino deshalb jetzt keinen 
  Button "Termin" mehr an.

- Neuer Button "Termin mit..." in :ref:`welfare.reception.Clients`.
  Den braucht man um einen Termin bei einem Agenten zu erstellen, 
  der nicht Begleiter dieses Klienten ist.

Printing a budget
-----------------

Fixed two bugs in the template used to print a :ref:`welfare.debts.Budget`:

- bei einem  Budgetausdruck (Nr. 73) kommt am Ende der Seite 
  "settings.SITE.site_version()" 
- und am Anfang beim Haushalt "actor.household.get_address(', ')"


Seeing the Calendar Panel of another user
-----------------------------------------

Uff! I think I fixed a difficult bug.
Until now this possibility was accessed only through the 
"Act as..." menu command which sets the global variable `Lino.subst_user`.
But the "Appointment" actions in each row of 
:ref:`welfare.reception.CoachingsByClient` use it differently,
they open the Lino.CalendarAppPanel with `su` as base parameter.
And Lino.CalendarAppPanel wasn't yet designed to handle this situation. 
Now it seems to work.

Since this kind of changes can cause bugs which are being reported only 
weeks later, I try to explain what I did:
The panel called `event_store.load()` in its `afterRender` 
listener. I had to remove this because it caused duplicate load calls.  
Instead of this I  replaced the `reload()` cal in refresh() by `load()`
so that it works also on first invocation.


