======================================
20130907 (Saturday, 07 September 2013)
======================================


Should `Actor.label` be inherited?
----------------------------------

Yesterday I stumbled once more over the surprising fact
that :attr:`lino.core.actors.Actor.label` 
is never inherited from base classes.

This rule was necessary because of (e.g.) the following use case::

    class Partner(dd.Model):
        ...
    class Partners(dd.Table):
        # no explicit `label` attribute, so take model._meta.verbose_name_plural

    class Person(Partner): 
        ...
    class Persons(Partners): 
        # again no explicit `label` attribute, so take model._meta.verbose_name_plural

In such a case we want (of course) the Persons table to be labelled 
"Persons" (the verbose_name_plural from model Person), 
not to inherit the label "Partners" from `Partners`.

But :mod:`lino_faggio.courses`
overrides the `ActiveCourses`
class definition from
:mod:`lino.modlib.courses`.
In this case it is unexpected behaviour to not inherit from the parent.

The solution was to differentiate between an explicitly 
specified `label` and a label taken from the model.
So I converted :attr:`lino.core.actors.Actor.label` 
into a property and new store an explicit `label` class attribute 
internally as `_label`.
Same philosophy was required for `known_values`.

Note the side effect that `get_actor_label` 
now is no longer called *only once at startup*
but each time somebody reads the `label` property.
Which altogether seems more sane.
For example, certain dynamically labelled tables 
in
:mod:`lino.modlib.cv`
or
:mod:`lino_welfare.modlib.debts`
no longer need to use sophisticated signal handlers,
they just implement their own special `get_actor_label` 
method.

Thanks to 
http://stackoverflow.com/questions/128573/using-property-on-classmethods
for revealing the trick to define a property on the metaclass
so that it works for the class object.
Remember that Actors are never instantiated.

Since all this is very subtle and was not yet completely covered by
the Lino test suite, 
I started to write a new tested document: a tutorial about :ref:`dev.actors`.


(Notiz am Rande: in :ref:`welfare` sieht man von alldem nur eines: 
Der Menübefehl
:menuselection:`Büro --> Meine Notizen`
lautet jetzt
:menuselection:`Büro --> Meine Ereignisse/Notizen`.
Was ja konsequent ist.)
