=====================================
20130910 (Tuesday, 10 September 2013)
=====================================

Worked on this:

-   In `reception.WaitingVisitors` it should not be allowed to delete a row because 
    that would leave the cal.Event without Guest.
    
The solution is to simply make all variants of `Visitors` tables 
readonly by setting :attr:`editable <lino.core.actors.Actor.editable>` 
to `False`. 
:attr:`editable <lino.core.actors.Actor.editable>`
does not deactivate the 
:attr:`editable <lino.core.model.Model.workflow_buttons>`.

This made me stumble on something similar to what we had a few 
days ago where the `label` of an Actor wasn't inherited.
Now it is the `editable` property.
I applied the same changes for `editable`.

MyWaitingVisitors is maybe not needed as a menu entry since it is also 
a get_admin_main_items. 
But if i remove it then i must edit pcsw_tests.py.
Waiting for user feedback before doing this.

Removed a test case from :ref:`welfare.tested.debts`
because (1) it failed und (2) was rather strange anyway.

Updated the :ref:`demos`.


How to configure additional text to appear in sales invoices
------------------------------------------------------------

:class:`lino.utils.appy_pod.Renderer` 
has now a new built-in function  `jinja`


New file :srcref:`sales/Invoice/trailer.body.html
</lino/modlib/sales/config/sales/Invoice/trailer.body.html>`
Used from :srcref:`sales/Invoice/Default.odt </lino/modlib/sales/config/sales/Invoice/Default.odt>`


And :ref:`faggio`: has a special `trailer.body.html` which adds 
one item for each enrolment mentioned in this invoice::

    <p>{{_("Your enrolments:")}}</p>
    {% for enr in this.get_invoiceables(settings.SITE.modules.courses.Enrolment) %}
    <ul>
    <li>{{enr.course}} : {{enr.course.events_text()}}</li>
    </ul>
    {% endfor %}
    </div>

Some optimizations:

-   Until now sales.Invoice used the hard-coded build method 
    :class:`appypdf <lino.mixins.printable.AppyPdfBuildMethod>`.
    Journal is now a PrintableType (and thus has a new field build_template)
    Note that not every Voucher is necessarily a TypedPrintable.

-   :function:`lino.core.web.site_setup` : 
    changed order of discovery for the loaders:
    first come the :meth:`get_settings_subdirs
    <lino.site.Site.get_settings_subdirs>`, 
    then only the packageloaders.
    

Continued on :ref:`faggio`: 
---------------------------

- Removed EventStates "draft" and "published". 
- Event guest are now filled with the enrolled pupils. 
  New SiteConfig field pupil_guestroles.


Custom fields of Choicelist Choices
-----------------------------------

Something cool: application code can now simply define 
custom fields of a 
:class:`lino.core.choicelists.Choice`
by declaring them on the 
:class:`lino.core.choicelists.Choicelist`.
First usage example are `cal.EventStates`
and `lino.UserLevel`.
If you wanted to show such custom fields 
in a table, then you had to define a virtual field::

    @fields.virtualfield(models.CharField(_("Short name"),max_length=2,
        help_text="used to fill UserProfiles"))
    def short_name(cls,choice,ar):
        return choice.short_name
        
Now you can just write::

    short_name = models.CharField(_("Short name"),max_length=2,
        help_text="used to fill UserProfiles")


todo
----

- demo.py : pupil_guestrole
- Anwesenheiten erfassen können
- suggest_guests wieder raus? weil es auf dem Papier reicht?
