==================================
20131011 (Friday, 11 October 2013)
==================================

Mailinglist managers
--------------------

For my own usage I am fully satisfied with mailman, but 
`TrueDuality <http://serverfault.com/questions/72940/alternatives-to-mailman>`__
is right when he or she writes 
"it is starting to show it's age in a bad way":
the web interface isn't anything you want to offer 
to your customers.

Scanning over http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Electronic_mailing_list
I still couldn't find any alternative in Python.

One thing is theoretically clear: since a MLM needs a web interface 
to manage memberships, this is a candidate for another new 
Lino application.
I'm of course scared by the idea of having to reinvent the wheel 
once more.
But it is true: as long as we don't have the "Universal Framework", 
people are forced to reinvent wheels all the time.



Recurrent Events
----------------

DONE:  

- Removed field `uid` from :class:`lino.modlib.cal.models.Companent` 
  because it was useless. (One CharField less in every Task and Event!)
  
- Added a new model 
  :class:`cal.RecurrentEvent <lino.modlib.cal.models.RecurrentEvent>`.
  New menu command :menuselection:`Configuration --> Calendar --> Recurrent events`
  

- Renamed "update_cal_subject" to "update_cal_summary" (the old name 
  was obviously a typo).
  
- `max_auto_events` is no longer a class attribute in settings.py but a
  SiteConfig field.

- New SiteConfig fields `farest_future` and `default_calendar`.

- `next_partner_id` is now nullable.

- The start_date field of new RecurrenceSets (Contracts, Courses,...) 
  is no longer empty but today::

    dd.update_field(RecurrenceSet,'start_date',default = datetime.date.today)

- Moved fields for RemoteCalendar out of Calendar.
  Changed verbose_name of Calendar to "EventType".
  
- TeacherType and PupilType are now :class:`Referrable <lino.mixins.Referrable>`.
  
- Tabelle der Ferientage : Globale Liste der Daten, an denen Lino 
  *keine* automatischen Termine vorschlagen soll.
  :menuselection:`Konfigurierung --> Kalender --> Recurrent Events`
  
- Renamed Calendar to EventType.
  Extended cal.Subscription to be what the extensible CalendarPanel 
  calls "Calendars"
  
- Renamed all fields named "*calendar*" "*event_type*"
  Except for `Task.calendar` which has been simply removed.
  
- Wenn man in den Parametern von Kursen als Thema "Sport" ausgewählt, 
  und dann war die Liste leer. Und auf dem Server kam 
  "ERROR: Cannot resolve keyword u'topic' into field."

- Beim Generieren von Terminen muss er die Recurrent Events jetzt noch 
  berücksichtigen. IOW muss Terminkollisionen vermeiden.

- Layout Kurs Detail : Beginndatum hat keinen Button für Kalender

- Termin mit einem Klick "verschieben" 
  (d.h. "an diesem Datum ausfallen" lassen, und Lino soll hinten dranhängen).
  So ein Button ist jetzt vielleicht nicht mehr nötig, weil ihr ja die 
  Feiertage eingeben könnt und theoretisch alles automatisch richtig gesetzt wird.
  Aber ich habe das Datum als änderbare Kolonne in die Tabelle 
  hinzugefügt, dort kannst du F2 drücken und dann den Kalender öffnen. 
  Das ist ja auch relativ komfortabel.


TODO: 


- Chronologische Reihenfolge der Einschreibungen nicht nur pro Datum, 
  sondern auch Uhrzeit.
  
- Wenn ich Einschreibung bestätige (vom Kurs aus)::
  
    Exception
    ParameterStore of LayoutHandle for ParamsLayout on courses.Enrolments expected a list of 6 values, but got [u'', u'', u'', u'', u'']

    TRACEBACK:
    File "/usr/local/pythonenv/demo/lib/python2.6/site-packages/django/core/handlers/base.py", line 115, in get_response
    (...)
    File "/home/luc/hgwork/lino/lino/core/requests.py", line 456, in __init__
    pv.update(self.actor.params_layout.params_store.parse_params(request))
    File "/home/luc/hgwork/lino/lino/ui/store.py", line 982, in parse_params
    self,len(self.param_fields),pv))

- Nach Einfügen einer Einschreibung nicht ins Detail springen sondern in der Listenansicht bleiben.

- Dokumentieren:

    Partner : alle Personen und Organisationen, mit denen wir Geschäfte machen
    
    - Organisationen
    - Personen : alle möglichen Menschen
      - Teilnehmer : alle Personen, die als Teilnehemer ausgewählt werden können
         mit einer "Schülerart" (Eiche, LFV, COK, Nichtmitglied...)
      - Kursleiter : 


