====================================
20131019 (Saturday, 19 October 2013)
====================================

A new public demo
-----------------

(To Kai and the other people of the SacredPy project:)

I installed a public demo version of :ref:`polly`, 
my second prototype for you:

  http://polly-demo.lino-framework.org/
  
I am highly enthusiastic and will certainly continue one day,
but I have so much other projects waiting!
So I'll let *you* wait for some time now. 
Meanwhile you can log in there and try to play around. 
It's only half finished and lacks documentation.

Lino Polly is basically a general-purpose 
web application to manage  polls. 
If you want you can say that I'm reinventing askbot or similar websites.
Maybe it would be easier to adapt askbot...
but *not* for me since I have my own framework 
which I love and want to test!

Lino Polly Crash Course:

- Login as instructed on http://polly-demo.lino-framework.org/

- Create new polls : :menuselection:`Polls --> Polls`

- Create your response to a poll : :menuselection:`Polls --> My responses`

- Create more "choice sets" in 
  :menuselection:`Configuration -- > Polls --> ChoiceSets`
  (or click `here <http://polly-demo.lino-framework.org/api/polls/ChoiceSets>`_)
  (a choice set is a reusable set of possible answers to a question. 
  Polly currently supports only  blueprint questions with reusable sets of 
  answers.)

TODO:

- More useful information in the `Results` tab
- Display pending polls on the welcome page
- Printable result sheet
- Workflow & user permissions



