==================================
20131025 (Friday, 25 October 2013)
==================================

Was jetzt noch fehlte bei den Reservierungen (d.h. Kursen und Buchungen) 
ist ein transparenteres Handhaben der Aktion "Termine generieren": 
wann soll Lino automatisch die Termine aktualisieren?

- Entwurf ("Anfrage") : editierbar. Keine Termine generieren.
- Option ("vorgemerkt") : Vermieter sagt zu, dass dieser Interessent 
  informiert wird bevor Ruam an einen Dritten vermietet wird.
- Registriert ("Festbuchung") : Mieter hat definitiv zugesagt.
  Buchung gilt als fakturierbar 
- Storniert : Veranstaltung hat nicht stattgefunden, Buchung soll aber 
  nicht gelöscht werden (z.B. weil sie auch fakturiert war)


Some more optimizations and bugfixes for the framework:

- Adapted :meth:`lino.core.model.Model.after_ui_save` 
  (and :func:`form2obj_and_save <lino.ui.views.form2obj_and_save>` 
  who calls it) to the new situation 
  of storing the response in the 
  :class:`lino.core.requests.BaseRequest` (``ar``) : 
  no more need to pass and return a dict of keywords (``kw``) used 
  to store that response.


- Discovered and fixed the following bug::

    @dd.when_prepared('partners.Person','partners.Organisation')
    def add_merge_action(model):
        model.define_action(merge_row=dd.MergeAction(model))

  This code accidentally used ``partners`` insterad of ``contacts``.
  And Lino did not complain!
  Why?
  Because `when_prepared` until now 
  used `is_installed_model_spec` and  silently ignored model 
  specifications with app_labels that are not installed.
  Oh no, that's too much automation.
  I marked :meth:`is_installed_model_spec <djangosite.Site.is_installed_model_spec>` as deprecated.
  Now the above code (correctly) raises an Exception 
  "Oops, there are pending injects: partners.Person (...)"

- :class:`lino.mixins.Registrable` : the "Register" and "Unregister" 
  actions now have icons.


- Since 20130820 we have the trick for disabling inherited actions by 
  redefining on my subclass a class attribute of same name with value None.
  This trick worked on **Actors**, now it also works on **Models**.
  

- New settings 
  :setting:`calendar_end_hour`
  and
  :setting:`calendar_start_hour`.


- Until now it is still theoretically possible to define different 
  `workflow_state_field` for different actors of a same model.
  
  
