======================================
20131106 (Wednesday, 06 November 2013)
======================================

Today at midnight I plan to participate for the first time to a meeting
of the sacredpy project.
To dive into the project again, I tried to reproduce Catherine's problem 
with her askbot fork::

  git clone https://github.com/reibwo/askbot-devel.git
  
But this is so much new stuff for me, I got stuck without any result.
I preferred to work on :ref:`polly` instead:

- polls.Question.choiceset is now nullable, and in that case the Poll's 
  `default_choiceset` is used. This is so that when you change the 
  `default_choiceset` of a Poll you don't need to change all Questions 
  of that Poll.

- Updated :ref:`polly.intro`

- Discovered and fixed a bug in the framework: 
  when a Table had both
  `variable_row_height`
  and 
  `auto_fit_column_widths`
  set to True, then `auto_fit_column_widths` was ignored when the 
  table was rendered as a slave in a detail.

Thoughts for the meeting tonight:

- my experience with Catherine's fork shows again that i am not the 
  right guy for extending other people's code. 
  I also tried to get started with Heroku and got stuck
  (which means I understood that it won't be a quick result).
  
- if you want, I can make a quick demo of
  http://polly-demo.lino-framework.org so that they see where it is.
  Lino Polly is waiting for the decision whether it is worth 
  to continue on this project.
  
  
Result of the meeting:
Jason will have a look at Lino and try to start an application for 
SacredPy. They don't only want polls and discussions but also a 
"presentation" module, i.e. the whole Bible online for consultation, 
something like a dynamic version of the OEB project.
Something like what I started with :ref:`logos`.

Jason, I suggest that you start with the :ref:`lino.tutorial.quickstart` 
tutorial.
In your :xfile:`settings.py` file write 
``from lino.projects.polly.settings import *``
and you'll get something similar to what is running
at http://polly-demo.lino-framework.org




