===================================
20131111 (Monday, 11 November 2013)
===================================


Lino and  Django 1.6
--------------------

Django 1.6 has been released. 
Remember from :blogref:`20130709`:

- TODO: :mod:`lino.core.inject` seems to have problems. 
  Which is not too surprising as it uses some subtle but undocumented hacks.
  Will have a closer look at this when a first release will be 
  visible on PyPI.
  
:func:`lino.core.inject.inject_field <inject_field>` didn't work in 
Django 1.6:
injected fields weren't seen by subclasses.
E.g. :mod:`lino.modlib.vat` injects a field `vat_regime` 
to `contacts.Partner`, but when trying to `initdb_demo` for :ref:`cosi` 
I got::

  File "/home/luc/hgwork/site/djangosite/dbutils.py", line 116, in obj2str
    v = getattr(i,fld.name,None) # 20130709 Django 1.6b1
  File "/home/luc/pythonenvs/py27d/local/lib/python2.7/site-packages/django/db/models/fields/subclassing.py", line 32, in __get__
    return obj.__dict__[self.field.name]
  KeyError: u"Problem installing fixture '/home/luc/hgwork/lino/lino/modlib/contacts/fixtures/demo.py': u'vat_regime'"

This was because in Django 1.6 the `_meta` object does a bit more 
caching of the fields. 

.. note::

    Thanks to Kai Willadsen and the authors of the `Meld Diff Viewer
    <http://meldmerge.org/>`_, a great tool which helped me to 
    understand the above problem.
    
    
Another problem is the fact that test discovery has changed.
(see `Running tests <https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/topics/testing/overview/#running-tests>`_).
The Lino test suite happily did things like this::

  django-admin.py test --settings=lino.test_apps.quantityfield.settings --noinput --failfast --traceback
  django-admin.py test --settings=lino.test_apps.20100212.settings --noinput --failfast --traceback

Before Django 1.6 this worked because tests were only found within packages listed in `INSTALLED_APPS`.
Django 1.6 will discover tests in *any* file named “test*.py” *under the current working directory*.
So I had adapt some of the tutorials.


