======================================
20131113 (Wednesday, 13 November 2013)
======================================


Continued to prepare the next release of :ref:`welfare`
-------------------------------------------------------

Continued on writing
:func:`lino_welfare.migrate.migrate_from_1_1_10`,
which as expected is more work than usual 
because there were extensive
database changes in :mod:`lino.modlib.cal`.

Note that when writing a migration function, I create a lot of checkins.
You might ask why. 
It's because I do the tests directly on the remote machine, using repeated
sequences of::

  $ pull
  $ python manage.py run /var/log/lino/backups/20131113_020101/restore.py --traceback
  
I prefer this because every run takes some time and causes 
the machine to slow down. Let the client's machine do that work!
While working on this, I could check my inbox and work on the next topic:

Paging in a combobox looses the context
---------------------------------------

Joe contributed both a bug report and its fix:
  
- Bug: Open demo with countries modlib module (I tested on 
  :ref:`lino.tutorial.watch`). Open detail of Person from Belgium. Open
  combo with City selection. You have two pages of result. Click "next" 
  button and you have 4 pages of results (because cities from other 
  countries are now included). 
  
- His fix overrides the ComboBox's `initList` to add a listener to the 
  `beforechange` event which retains context parameters.
  
Thanks, Joe!



Setting :setting:`MEDIA_ROOT` in :xfile:`djangosite_local.py`
-------------------------------------------------------------

Until now Lino has always set :setting:`MEDIA_ROOT` 
to a hard-coded value 
``<project_dir>/media``.
You could override that manually in your settings.py file, 
but you could not set it in :xfile:`djangosite_local.py`.

Now you can: Lino installs the default value only when
:setting:`MEDIA_ROOT`  is empty.
