=====================================
20131114 (Thursday, 14 November 2013)
=====================================

Tutorial about dynamic tables (matrixes)
----------------------------------------

And here is a third new tutorial:
:doc:`/tutorials/matrix_tutorial/index`.


Rendering ForeignKeys to models without `insert_layout`
-------------------------------------------------------

Fixed a bug reported by Joe:
A ForeignKey field is
rendererd as a TwinButton Combobox: one button to open the selection
list (as with any combo box), the other one to lookup the current value
(by opening a detail window on that object). The bug came because you
can now use the "Lookup" button of a combobox to quickly insert an item
in the selection list (by clicking it when the field is empty).


Updated documentation about permission
--------------------------------------

Joe contributed documentation about Lino's permissions system.
I integrated this into :doc:`/dev/perms`.


Install :ref:`eidreader` on testlino for Gerd
---------------------------------------------

Uff! After solving some last little issues, Gerd and his users can now 
finally start to test the :ref:`eidreader`.

- Added a :file:`get_jars.sh` script to the :ref:`eidreader` repository
  to make installation more automatic.
  Updated the docs (:ref:`eidreader.install`)

- The error handling in :ref:`eidreader` is rather primitive, but works for me: 
  you must know that the read() function *always* returns a string. 
  Upon success this is a yaml-formatted string with data found on the card.
  But when some error occurs (no card present, no reader connected,...), then 
  it is a **single-line** string with the error message. 
  The server-side code which processes this response 
  (:class:`BeIdReadCardAction <lino.mixins.beid.BeIdReadCardAction>`)
  now checks this condition and displays the error message.

- There was a problem with yesterday's change about the 
  default value for :setting:`MEDIA_ROOT`. 
  Because of this new rule we cannot anymore instantiate a dummy 
  SITE instance, as was done by :mod:`lino.projects.std.settings`.
  The server said:
  ".../lino/projects/std/media/extjs does not exist and 
  SITE.extjs_root is not set."

  That's why we have a new setting :setting:`auto_configure_logger_names`
  and a new module :mod:`lino.projects.std.settings_test`.
