=====================================
20131116 (Saturday, 16 November 2013)
=====================================

Importing data from TIM
-----------------------

(Andreas is a professional Belgian accountant who volunteers to test
:ref:`cosi` in an almost real environment: he's going to manage 
a company with low-volume but complete accounting using Lino.)

The first job in this project is for me: write a tim2lino fixture to 
import existing data from TIM.

The code is currently in  :mod:`lino.projects.presto.fixtures.tim2lino`.
Most of which is going to be used for :ref:`cosi`, too.
I reorganized the existing code into a `TimLoader` class to 
triage between general and presto-specific import processing.

It seems that 

Upgraded Ubuntu from version 12.04 to 12.10
-------------------------------------------

Tonight I did it. 
Could no longer stand those repeated warnings that a 
new LTS version is available.
I told Ubuntu to do the upgrade.
One warning came:

    **Third party sources disabled**

    Some third party entries in your sources.list were disabled. You can 
    re-enable them after the upgrade with the 'software-properties' tool 
    or your package manager.

While downloading I worked on the above tim2lino.

After 2 hours of unpacking and installing, my notebook asked 
me to reboot, I did that... and got a black screen. 

I had to learn that I can hold the Shift key during power-on to 
get the GRUB menu. 
Tried the older kernels, tried without "quiet splash",... 
no real help 
I discovered that when I pressed Ctrl-Alt-F1 in time (before the machine
freezes) I can log in at the console.
Uff: everything is still there. I could even push the changes 
in tim2lino.
Except for the graphical user interface.

From that console I did aptitude update, dist-upgrade, then removed 
the following packages which had conflicts:

- xserver-xorg-core-lts-quantal
- xserver-xorg-lts-quantal
- libgl1-mesa-dri-lts-quantal

Then I did ``aptitude install ubuntu-desktop xorg`` and everything 
was okay again. Phew.


Hom to move from Google to GitHub
---------------------------------

I created a project "lino" on github... but how to import Lino's 
history there?

- `the Hg-Git mercurial plugin <http://hg-git.github.io>`_ is not what 
  I need. I just want to import once and then learn to use Git instead 
  of Mercurial.
  
- `Is there a Git command to import a hg repository 
  <http://stackoverflow.com/questions/5225666/is-there-a-git-command-to-import-a-hg-repository>`_
  
- `Converting Mercurial folder to a Git repository
  <http://stackoverflow.com/questions/10710250/converting-mercurial-folder-to-a-git-repository>`_
  
  git-fast-export
  
-   
