====================================
20131126 (Tuesday, 26 November 2013)
====================================

Reading Belgian eID cards
-------------------------

:ref:`eidreader` project encounters two important problems:

- Java sucks
- No supporting community

Maybe less important, but the last straw that breaks the camel's back:
I realized that an applet will always act only "upon user request".
More elegant than eidreader would be an action which starts
automatically when the user inserts an eid card.

The client machines who want to read eid cards would need to install
and run a background task which listens to the smartcard slot and when
it finds a card, instead of popping up a window it writes that data to
a configurable place on the Lino server. And the server would then
watch that directory and read every incoming file.

The official way is to use the `eID Middleware
<http://eid.belgium.be/en/developing_eid_applications/eid_software_development_kit/>`_
which "enables you to use the content of the electronic identity card
from a desktop application".  The SDK has no Python binding, only
C++,C#, VB and Java.  So I would still need to write Java code. But at
least not an applet.

The alternative way might be to write such an application 
in Python using
`pssi <https://code.google.com/p/pssi/>`_, written by 
Eric Bourry and Julien Flaissy,
for which 
Laurent Léonard has written a ``belgian_eid`` plugin.
`pssi <https://code.google.com/p/pssi/>`_ 
is a "Python script that
provides an abstract layer for smartcard reading. Thanks to it, it is
possible to read a smartcard by simply adding its structure in the
form of a plugin, without taking care of the communication layer. The
tool comes with several plugins, namely SIM, EMV, Navigo and Belgian
eID."

I installed ``pssi`` in order to see whether it works.

``pssi`` requires the smartcard module which needs either system-wide
or (if you want it in a virtualenv klike me) manual installation.
Downloaded it from `pyscard <http://pyscard.sourceforge.net/>`_,
then::

    $ tar xvzf ~/Downloads/pyscard-1.6.12.tar.gz
    $ cd ~/snapshots/pyscard-1.6.12
    $ pip install -e .

The `setup.py` requires certain additional system packages::

    $ sudo aptitude install swig
    $ sudo aptitude install libpcsclite-dev
    
Then I checked out pssi from `pssi <https://code.google.com/p/pssi/>`_
and can run the `pssi.py` script directly::

    ~/repositories/pssi-read-only/pssi$ python pssi.py plugins/belgian-eid
    Failed to load symbol for: SCardCancelTransaction, /lib/i386-linux-gnu/libpcsclite.so.1: undefined symbol: SCardCancelTransaction!

     ATR                         : 3B 98 13 40 0A A5 03 01 01 01 AD 13 11
     Content                    
        DF ID                      
           ID                         
              Card Number                 : 123-1234567-12                      ()
              Chip Number                 : 123c123e12345678901d123456789123    ()
              Card validity date begin    : 19.08.2011                          (DD.MM.YYYY)
              Card validity date end      : 19.08.2016                          (DD.MM.YYYY)
              Card delivery municipality  : Tallinn                             ()
              National Number             : 68.06.01-012.34                     ()
              Name                        : Saffre                              ()
              2 first given names         : Luc Johannes                        ()
              First letter of 3rd given names :                                     ()
              Nationality                 : Belgier                             ()
              Birth location              : Eupen                               ()
              Birth date                  : 01.JUN. 1968                        (DD mmmm YYYY or DD.mmm.YYYY (German))
              Sex                         : Man                                 ()
              Noble condition             :                                     ()
              Document type               : Belgian citizen                     ()
              Special status              : No status                           ()
              Hash photo                  : 56bf0a64c8c6914727670093b7f99063a71d4ff2 (SHA-1)


Cool!
    
**Summary** (so far)

Both the official and the alternative way seem possible.  The latter
would have the advantage of using Python.  And of being
"international": support operation in places where different eId cards
from different nations need to be read.

But for installation this is not an advantage: clients anyway need the
official middleware and a Java JRE.
Since I have no customer who requires international operation,
I'd rather implement it as a Java application.


Sphinx has a new beta release
-----------------------------

Georg Brandl announced a new beta release of 
`Sphinx <http://sphinx-doc.org/install.html>`_.

$ pip install -U sphinx

Which solved the problem of those thousands of "cannot read css
stylesheet" messages.
Thanks!

And `here <http://sphinx-doc.org/latest/changes.html>`_!
See what I have been missing!
`sphinx-apidoc` now can generate 
a separate page for each module!
Cool!

TODO:

- I noticed that the "(source code)" link of the API docs still refers 
  to the Google repository.


How to add new TI handler
-------------------------

Added new handler for "Guardians" element of a :ddref:`welfare.cbss.`

"ERROR: No handler for Guardians (Guardians)"


- Removed the `run_action_from_console` method of `tables.Table`
