======================================
20131127 (Wednesday, 27 November 2013)
======================================

Upgrade to testlino
-------------------

Upgraded `testlino` in Eupen
to the newest development version.
This took more time than usual because most projects are now on github, 
so I had to adapt the "pull" procedure.

Tested the data migration.
Updated :func:`lino_welfare.migrate.migrate_from_1_1_10` to remove 
field `help_text` in `accounts.Group` and `accounts.Account`.

A bug visible in the demo
-------------------------

The example demo application built by 
:ref:`lino.tutorial.polls` also demonstrated a bug:
answering the confirmation  
"X has already N votes! Do you still want to vote for it?"
with "No" caused an :ref:`ise`.
The bug itself was in 
:meth:`lino.core.requests.BaseRequest.confirm`.

Upgraded :ref`lf` to the newest development version.

This revealed two more stale `SITE` instantiations 
in 
:mod:`lino.projects.presto.settings`
and
:mod:`lino.projects.belref.settings`

TODO: Write a test case which reproduces this.

How to read info from Estonian eID cards?
-----------------------------------------

Parallel dazu habe ich begonnen zu erforschen, 
wie sich unser Problem in Estland lösen würde. 
https://code.google.com/p/esteid/wiki/WebDeveloper?wl=en

Posted to `esteid-devel
<https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/esteid-devel>`_::


Moved more projects to GitHub
-----------------------------

I moved also :ref:`faggio`, :ref:`welfare` and :ref:`patrols` 
to GitHub.
