====================================
20131203 (Tuesday, 03 December 2013)
====================================

Eesti koolid vabaks
-------------------

I read an article which claims that schools in Estonia are worried
because the price for their Microsoft license seems to become ten
times higher in the near future: `Eesti koolid ei jaksa enam
Microsoftilt tarkvara osta
<http://epl.delfi.ee/news/eesti/eesti-koolid-ei-jaksa-enam-microsoftilt-tarkvara-osta.d?id=67076102>`_

This made me think that now is the time to start a non-profit 
organisation (MTÜ)  that offers professional support for 
schools in Estonia. 
Mission statement would be something like:

    Tere tulemast MTÜ "Eesti koolid vabaks!" veebisaidil. 

    Meie missjoon on pakkuda õige hinnaga professionaalne tugi
    koolidele, kes kasutavad edubuntu operatsioonisüsteem.  Meie
    põhitoode on leping, mille kaudu saad oma koolile süsteemihalur,
    kes vastab küsimustele telefoni jm kanalite kaudu ja kes vajadusel
    tuleb kohale ausa tunnihinnaga.

I am not an entrepreneur, so I see my role just as the initiator and
publisher of the original idea, and possibly a financial contributor.

I started a "group" and a "page" on Facebook:
    
- https://www.facebook.com/koolidvabaks
- https://www.facebook.com/groups/koolidvabaks/
    
The next step (for me) would be to create a quick website 
for the not-yet-founded organisation.

Something like `businesscard.at <http://www.businesscard.at>`_ or 
`veebimajutus.ee <https://www.veebimajutus.ee>`_.
I created `a free website at businesscard.at
<http://ekv.businesscard.at/>`_,
but as expected this is not usable because it fits our needs
*only almost* fully.

The idea which I like best is of course to do that using Lino.
I started a Lino application to quickly
create a combined website and contacts management application for such
a startup company: :mod:`lino.examples.start`.

A Lino application like :ref:`cosi` but
additionally with an out-of-the-box business-card style website and a
possibility to write newsletters.

I then implemented it locally using a :ref:`cosi` site with a
non-empty :setting:`admin_prefix` setting so that
:mod:`lino.modlib.pages` is enabled (iow "CMS mode" enabled).
The result also is *only almost* satisfying because Lino's 
CMS mode is not ready.

I'd be happy to get that into a publishable state, but I 
fear that I must stop this project here:
it makes no sense to fiddle with the CMS mode as long as the new 
plugin concept isn't fully implemented.

So that project must wait until *either* I get Lino's CMS mode to 
a usable state *or* somebody in the group becomes active.

Lino source code now PEP8-compliant
------------------------------------

I ran ``autopep8 -ir`` over the Lino source code.

Fixed a heading level mismatch in :doc:`/dev/perms`.

Fixed some minor failures in the test suite.

The snippet in :blogref:`20130719` is no longer part of the Lino 
test suite (because Lino should not depend on Lino Welfare).


How to read Estonian eID cards (continued)
------------------------------------------

Here is an important information which I did not know:
`Reading the personal data file from the ID-card
<http://www.id.ee/index.php?id=35798>`_.
Thanks to Tavo Toomemägi from `id.ee` who found it for me,
and to Merike Sell who gave me the idea to ask them for help.

This means that :ref:`eidreader` becomes useless. Instead of reading 
myself directly from the smartcard using the very low-level 
PC/SC interface, I must now:

-   write a command-line tool similar to `eidenv` but for Belgian cards
-   write another applet which calls this tool and sends the output 
    to Javascript. 
    In fact such an applet may already exist since that's nothing 
    eid-specific.
    Execute a command is similar to what I already do in :ref:`davlink`, 
    or as explained in 
    `Can trusted 1.5 applets execute system commands?
    <http://stackoverflow.com/questions/1240575/can-trusted-1-5-applets-execute-system-commands>`_.

I think I can give up the idea of an international eid card reader
which would allow to read id cards from different countries, 
detecting automatically the right country.
It would have been nice, but this is a job for programmers paid 
by the European Union.

Another question to meditate is: how to make configurable whether
clients should use the Estonian or the Belgian card. I want to add the
ability to read data from eid card for both Belgian and Estonian Lino
users. And then it should maybe work correctly on a site with 
mixed clients (Linux and Windows).



