=====================================
20131207 (Saturday, 07 December 2013)
=====================================


As another proof of concept for the new plugins concept using
`ad.App`, I want to convert the `use_extensible` setting into a
plugin. This got a large step further but is not finished.

I also moved the ``cal`` app from :mod:`lino.modlib` 
to :mod:`lino.apps`. 
(Which caused rather many code changes;
next time I should do this in a separate branch.)

Concretely: 
the :mod:`lino.modlib.cal` app has been moved
to :mod:`lino.apps.cal`, 
and the `use_extensible` functionality has been encapsulated 
into a new app :mod:`lino.apps.extensible`.
Both apps are now plugins.

One eureka effect was when I moved `get_patterns` and related methods
from `Site` to `Kernel`.

:mod:`djangosite.djangosite_site` : :setting:`override_modlib_models` is 
now a dict, no longer a simple set. Because when somethings is wrong, 
the error message should be able to tell me which plugin was wrong.

I wrote some more about :ref:`app_inheritance`.

I upgraded the Django of my default development environment
from 1.5.1 to 1.6.0.
This revealed some missing `default=False` on BooleanField
in :ref:`welfare`.
And it caused a new exception (TransactionManagementError: 
This is forbidden when an 'atomic' block is active)
due to a hackerish method
`bulk_create_with_manual_ids`
in :mod:`lino_welfare.modlib.debts.models`.


TODO:

- faggio test suite still broken

- :class:`CalendarAction <lino.core.actions.CalendarAction>` 
  should be defined in :mod:`lino.apps.extensible.models`,
  but :mod:`lino.extjs.ext_renderer` currently still needs it 
  because it handles this action very specially.
  We need to generalize this special handling.

- Find a better name for :class:`lino.core.kernel.Kernel`

- What about the name for :class:`djangosite.djangosite_site.App`? 
  Wouldn't be "Plugin" better?
  Answer: yes. 

