====================================
20131210 (Tuesday, 10 December 2013)
====================================

The online demos found yet another bug:

- `AttrDict instance has no key 'PanelEvents'`
  (AttributeError at /restful/cal/PanelEvents)



How to make money with Lino
---------------------------

Thanks to Michael Hipp who discovered and helped me to fix 
a *documentation bug*. He wrote:

  Lino says: "you may run your Lino application on an Internet server
  and sell subscriptions to users of your system. You don’t need to
  publish your source code in that case since you are not conveying
  your work."  http://www.lino-framework.org/about/license.html

  ExtJS says: "“Conveyance” for a web application is triggered when a
  user outside the legal entity that created the application uses the
  application."  http://www.sencha.com/legal/open-source-faq/

  These seem to be in conflict.

And I think that he is right. I modified :doc:`/about/license` 
to remove this conflict.


Continued on :ref:`faggio`
--------------------------

- Ran `autopep8` over the code. Afterwards commit.
- Added `workflow_buttons` to detail of `courses.CourseDetail`
- Defined default workflow transitions for `courses.CourseStates`

- clicking on the lookup button of a ForeignKey combobox was meant 
  to open the insert window. didn't work because all fields were 
  disabled. Fixed. ``Lino.show_fk_detail`` must pass ``record_id: -99999``.

- New method `courses.Enrolment.create_pupil_choice` 
  to add automatic learning. 

- New function :func:`parse_name <lino.modlib.contacts.utils.parse_name>`
  to automatically uppercase the first letter of
  a person's first and last name.

- The "Refresh" button in the toolbar of a modified form 
  didn't behave as expected: it first saved current changes, 
  then refreshed. That's what the Save button is expected to do.
  The Refresh button now again asks whether to save the changes 
  in current form.

- New table `cal.SubscriptionsByCalendar`.
  
N.B.: When there are more than a certain number of columns, then the
menu used to hide or show them has special scroll markers to indicate
that not all items are visible. Hovering with the mouse over one of
them starts scrolling. *But* sometimes not until the end. If you
cannot find the column you want, then *click* on the scroll marker.

I had to write and test the following snippet before I found the above 
trick!

>>> import os
>>> os.environ['DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE'] = 'lino_faggio.settings.test'
>>> from lino.runtime import *
>>> from __future__ import print_function
>>> ses = settings.SITE.login()
>>> ah = courses.EventsByCourse.get_handle()
>>> 'state' in ah.list_layout.hidden_elements
True
>>> 'state' in [col.name for col in ah.list_layout.main.columns]
True
>>> 'state' in [e.name for e in courses.EventsByCourse.wildcard_data_elems()]
True





