=====================================
20131214 (Saturday, 14 December 2013)
=====================================


Importing contacts data into a Lino application
-----------------------------------------------

Started with new module :mod:`lino.apps.importfilters`.


`PermissionDenied`
------------------

Lino is obviously getting more attention. 
I feel that directly because :ref:`ise` messages like the following 
are getting more frequent::

  Exception at /api/polls/MyPolls/-99999
  <class 'lino.core.perms.AnonymousUser'> is not a <class 'lino.modlib.users.models.User'> (polls.MyPolls.master_key = 'user')

I guess that such messages are caused when somebody had been playing
on a demo site, saved some permalink somewhere, and reused it later,
after the session has timed out or the database had been
reinitialized.

This was because :meth:`lino.core.tables.AbstractTable.get_filter_kw`
raised a plain Exception in that case.
Now it raises a `PermissionDenied` exception, 
leading to a "Forbidden" error message (i.e. status code 403).

Better would be status code "400 Bad request" ("The request cannot be
fulfilled due to bad syntax"), but that's available only in Django 1.6
(where it is called SuspiciousOperation) and I currently want to remain 
usable on earlier Django versions.

- `HTTP status codes (Wikipedia) <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_HTTP_status_codes#4xx_Client_Error>`_
- `403 / forbidden / PermissionDenied (Django 1.5) 
  <https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.5/topics/http/views/#the-403-http-forbidden-view>`_
- `400 / bad request / SuspiciousOperation (Django 1.6) 
  <https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.6/topics/http/views/#the-400-bad-request-view>`_



EIDReader continued
-------------------

:ref:`eidreader` still doesn't run under Oracle Java, even when I sign 
the applet using a certificate purchased from GlobalSign.

Most people I asked about this tell me that applets are obsolete 
anyway, and that I should write my own browser extension.

So I googled once more for "browser extension run local command", and
thanks to `Start an external application from a Google Chrome
Extension?
<http://stackoverflow.com/questions/2652094/start-an-external-application-from-a-google-chrome-extension>`_
I found L.C. Klopfenstein's `Open with external application
<https://bitbucket.org/lck/open-with-external-application>`_ which
uses Roque Pinel's `SimpleGet <https://github.com/repinel/SimpleGet>`_
plugin.  That latter is discontinued. But both projects might be 
interesting for me to get started.

Note that even if I get these things to run, I still need to write
(and Lino users must install) a local executable which does the actual
work of reading the eid card. I'd probably use pssi to do that 
(see :blogref:`20131126`).






