===================================
20131222 (Sunday, 22 December 2013)
===================================

Converting Applet to Web Start application
------------------------------------------

Im IRC-Channel ##java ist es sogar *verboten*, 
über Applets zu reden. Und sie sagen auch warum:
http://javachannel.net/wiki/pmwiki.php/FAQ/Applets

Also ich muss mal folgendes lesen:
http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/technotes/guides/javaws

The official 
`Migrating Java Applets to Java Web Start Applications
<http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/applet-migration-139512.html>`__ does not help.

Here is a great document 
which finally explains all this in a 
disgestable way:
`Applets & Web Start Applications
<http://www.ntu.edu.sg/home/ehchua/programming/java/J4c_AppletWebstart.html>`__
It helped me to understand:

- in fact my "applet" was already a Web Start application 
  because it had a `jnlp_href` attribute.
- I had the `<security><all-permissions /></security>` element 
  missing in my `.jnlp` file.

Thanks to author Chua Hock-Chuan.


More problems in :ref:`eidreader`
---------------------------------

Sigh!
Now that :ref:`eidreader` finally gets permission to run, 
I can see (again) the same problems I had ages ago:
When reading a Belgian card, I get a
`ClassNotFoundException: be.fedict.eid.applet.service.Identity`_
while my Estonian card produces a
`javax.smartcardio.CardException: connect() failed`_
(caused by a `SCARD_E_PROTO_MISMATCH`).


ClassNotFoundException: be.fedict.eid.applet.service.Identity
-------------------------------------------------------------

This error comes when reading a **Belgian** card.

.. literalinclude:: 1222b.log
   :lines: 322-


And this although ``jar -tf eid-applet-service.jar`` shows me that the
class is contained.

Discovered `JaNeLa <http://pscode.org/janela/>`_ who told me a few
intersting things (none of which seems to be the cause):

.. literalinclude:: 1222-janela.txt

Maybe one of the 
`jar manifest attributes
<http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/technotes/guides/jweb/manifest.html>`_?

Hm... `Trusted-Library: true` doesn't seem to change anything, 
but with `Trusted-Only: true` it seems to fail later
and reports an `InvocationTargetException`. 
The console traceback is now:

.. literalinclude:: 1222c.log
   :lines: 362-

Aha, the following combination gets it to work::

    Trusted-Only: true
    Trusted-Library: false
    
TODO: 
    
- If there is anybody here who can explain me **why it works?!**
  I guess that it has to do with the fact that the third-party 
  jars do not have a Trusted-Library attribute...

- The alert message seems to show only the first line of text 
  "Reader: BE", but in fact the remained is there, you can see it 
  by scrolling down.

- There is still a "Security Warning":

      This web site is requesting access and control of the Java
      application shown above. Allow access only if you trust the web
      site and know that the application is intended to run on this
      site.

      Allow access to the following application from the web site?

      Yes / No / Help

  The message is irritating in that it does not mention any application 
  neither "above" nor "following".





javax.smartcardio.CardException: connect() failed
-------------------------------------------------

Now there is still the Estonian card:

This error comes when reading an **Estonian** card.


.. literalinclude:: 1222a.log
   :lines: 367-

I'll leave this open for now since I personally need to read only
Belgian cards.
