===================================
20131223 (Monday, 23 December 2013)
===================================

Mysteries of faith
------------------

Adapted :mod:`lino.apps.beid` so that it loads 
the applet using `jnlp_href`.

I have now hope that it works on :ref:`testlino` in Eupen.

Several checkins on :ref:`hoppel` and pulls on :ref:`testlino`.

:meth:`djangosite.djangosite_site.Site.configure_plugin` 
now also works *after* Site instantiation.

Oops, it seems that there is yet another "little problem": the jnlp
file needs a codebase attribute.  Ouch! And the last "little" problem
(:srcref:`docs/tickets/2013/1`) took me several weeks!

I am not the first one who encounters this problem. Kohsuke Kawaguchi
did some research in 2009: `Why can't we get rid of JNLP @codebase?
<https://weblogs.java.net/blog/kohsuke/archive/2009/07/why_cant_we_get.html>`__. Note
the interesting comments until October 2010.

Sigh. Basically this means that I must manually create a copy of the
eidreader.jnlp file on the production server. 
And possibly I must even sign the jnlp file.

But after having done this, I switched back to the version without
codebase attribute and... it works. 
IOTW again a problem which is not even reproducible.

Mysteries of faith:

- How can I instruct IcedTea to flush the local jnlp cache?  On
  Ubuntu, `javaws -Xclearcache` and `javaws -uninstall` seem to
  work. At least they give no error message.

- Why can't I access from my virtual Windows XP the ssh tunnel which
  is running on the host?  That would be one more possible test to do
  before asking local users.

- Why did I sometimes have on my Linux client the problem that both
  Firefox and Chromium say "java.lang.IndexOutOfBoundsException:
  Index: 0" (which means that there is no card reader).


Content Management à la Lino
----------------------------

Fixed a bug caused by a missing slash in the urlconf of 
:mod:`lino.modlib.pages`
and
:mod:`lino.apps.extjs`.
This bug appeared only when 
:attr:`admin_prefix <lino.lino_site.Site.admin_prefix>`
was no-empty (as it is in 
:mod:`lino.projects.start` and 
:mod:`lino.projects.cms`)

But :mod:`lino.projects.start` needs some more work. TODO:

- Convert :mod:`lino.modlib.extjs` to use 
  :attr:`url_prefix <lino.apps.extjs.App.url_prefix>`
  instead of 
  :attr:`admin_prefix <lino.lino_site.Site.admin_prefix>`.


