====================================
20131224 (Tuesday, 24 December 2013)
====================================

How to make money with Lino
---------------------------

I made more changes to :doc:`/about/license`.
Especially I added another way to make money with Lino 
(which existed before, but I didn't mention it).


Groupware à la Lino
-------------------

:ref:`presto` is already almost a groupware. Some modules are missing:

- `lino.apps.news` : Newsletters
- `lino.apps.lists` : Mailing lists
- `lino.apps.forums` : Discussion forums

Before doing these, I think I should do certain model renames to make
things easier:

- countries: City -> Place
- contacts: 
  Role -> Contact, 
  Company -> Group, 
  CompanyType -> GroupType
  (and later, when all production sites have migrated: RoleType -> Role)

This is also the beginning of :mod:`lino_faggio.migrate` since a first
:ref:`faggio` has gone into production.

After renaming `countries.City` to `countries.Place` I understood that
this is enough code change for today.  But I changed already
`verbose_name` from "Company" to "Group" and `verbose_name_plural`
from "Companies" to "Groups".  Existing applications which want to
preserve the old label can override the new default by overriding the
model.


How to have landslides use typographic quotes
---------------------------------------------

I just discovered Adam Zapletal's 
`landslides <https://github.com/adamzap/landslide>`_
module. Coool!

Here is my first contribution: 
I use landslides with restructuredtext markup.
I then had the problem that landslides does not convert
plain quotes to typographic ones.

In docutils this is a parser option called
`smart_quotes
<http://docutils.sourceforge.net/docs/user/config.html#smart-quotes>`__.

How to tell landslides to activate that option?
It seems that this kind of configuration is not yet implemented.
There should be a [docutils] section in the config file.

I solved it for my by editing the source code directly.
In file 
`landslide/rst.py 
<https://github.com/adamzap/landslide/blob/master/src/landslide/rst.py>`_
I find the place qhere it says::


    overrides = {
        'input_encoding': input_encoding,
        'doctitle_xform': doctitle,
        'initial_header_level': initial_header_level,
        'report_level': 'quiet',
    }

And I add a line to that dictionary::

    overrides = {
        'input_encoding': input_encoding,
        'doctitle_xform': doctitle,
        'initial_header_level': initial_header_level,
        'report_level': 'quiet',
        'smart_quotes': 'on'  # LS 20131224
    }

