=====================================
20131226 (Thursday, 26 December 2013)
=====================================

Django 1.7 will have "plugins"
------------------------------

Aymeric Augustin has implemented for Django 1.7 almost exactly what we were
calling "plugins". The new feature is documented as
`Applications <https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/ref/applications/>`_.

The official documentation now even contains a note about the
confusing terminology for "applications" in Django.

I was proud to see that Django finally realizes something I have
always been preaching... and couldn't keep from writing `a post to
django-developers mailing list
<https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/django-developers/_iggZzrYtJQ>`_

Aymeric gave me an advice which I liked: "Your App class contains more
data. It is CMS-oriented, with stuff like site_js_snippets. You should
look into inheriting AppConfig."

I followed his advice and moved the "GUI" functionality from
`djangosite` to :mod:`lino`. :class:`lino.lino_site.Plugin`

Later I looked at the code and saw that Aymeric's implementation
has a serious difference which I had not noticed from the
documentation: `AppConfig` objects don't get instantiated *before*
importing the models, but at the same time.  Oops, sorry, but that's
now a serious difference. One of the basic ideas of plugins (for me)
is that they get loaded and instantiated *before* the settings are
ready. They are part of the settings.

As a consequence I could not rename my `App` class to `AppConfig` (and
inherit from Django's `AppConfig` class).  

I then renamed it to `Plugin` to avoid mixing them with AppConfig
classes.

I finally got all three user interfaces of :mod:`lino.examples.start`
working.

There was still a bug in :mod:`lino.modlib.events.fixtures.vor` that
had been introduced by the rename of City to Place.
