20101012
========

Detail layouts now stored in :xfile:`*.dtl` files 
--------------------------------------------------

Wow: Layout definitions for Detail panels are now stored in individual text files named `app_name.model_name.*dtl`.
These are the logical equivalent of :xfile:`*.msk` files in TIM.
They are stored in a `config` subdir of each Django application (:setting:`INSTALLED_APPS`) 
and automatically discovered and loaded at server startup.
Report.reset_details and Report.add_detail no longer exist; detail layouts are never defined in source code anymore.
New function :func:`lino.modlib.tools.find_config_files`.
Also converted modules :mod:`lino.modlib.projects`, :mod:`lino.modlib.products`, :mod:`lino.modlib.sales` 
used by igen and lino.demo.

Other changes
-------------

- New Report :class:`notes.NotesByType` is used in :xfile:`notes.NoteType.dtl`

- Neues Feld :attr:`notes.NoteType.remark`

- Meldung "Cannot show detail of phantom record." wenn man auf der Phantom-Zeile :guilabel:`Detail` klickt.

- There was a "Maximum recursion limit" when using the following Detail Layout for notes.NoteType::

    main = 
        id name
        print_method template
        remark 
        notes.NotesByType
        
  Solved by removing the "reorganisation into element groups" in :class:`lino.ui.extjs.ext_elems.Panel`.
  
- Committed Lino revision 1161 and DSBE 166

- Layout editor now works again,
  and files are never written to the source directories, always to DATA_DIR/config.
  New class :class:`lino.modlib.tools.ConfigDir`.

- Layout editor has now basic error handling:
  if the user-submitted description causes some error, 
  the file is not saved and the user get the error message in the console.

- Wenn ein Detail- oder Insert-Fenster nur einen Tab hat, dann wird dessen Titel ("Detail") jetzt nicht mehr angezeigt.

- Quickfilter im Detail von Personen geht wieder. 
  Wenn durch meinen Filter der Record, auf dem ich gerade stand, verschwindet, 
  springt er auf den ersten sichtbaren Record.
  
- Felder mit Id-Kartennummer und -Gültigkeit sind jetzt disabled für importierte Partner:
  :attr:`dsbe.Person.card_number`,
  :attr:`dsbe.Person.card_valid_from`,
  :attr:`dsbe.Person.card_valid_until`

- NoteTypes wurden in :mod:`dsbe.management.commands.initdb_tim` nicht gelöscht (weil 'notes' beim `reset` nicht in der Liste der Anwendungen war) 
  und außerdem wurde ungefähr jede Notizart doppelt angelegt.
  
- Performance : In `Report.queryset` wird jetzt beim ersten Request ein queryset instanziert, 
  das dann für alle späteren Requests als Vorlage dient. 
  Kann sein, dass Django dadurch schneller ist.
  

Release
-------

Released :doc:`/releases/20101012`
