20101026
========

Working on ExtJS problems
-------------------------

Wrote showcase for :doc:`/tickets/8`. 
Posted the problem to the `ExtJS Help Forum
<http://www.sencha.com/forum/showthread.php?113648-dropTarget-and-notifyDrop-don-t-get-called>`__.
  
Did more testing and screenshots for :doc:`/tickets/1`.
Posted this as a bug in 
`ExtJS Bugs Forum <http://www.sencha.com/forum/showthread.php?113652-Wrong-layout-in-Chrome-and-FF-when-tab-gets-activated&p=530101>`__
 
Release :doc:`/releases/20101026`
---------------------------------

Zunächst nur im DSBE. 
Im Laufe des Releases mehrere Check-ins, u.A. wegen folgender Fehler:

  - `AttributeError: DBFRecord instance has no attribute 'get'`
    in :mod:`initdb_tim <lino.modlib.dsbe.management.commands.initdb_tim>`
    
  - IE meldet die üblichen `Expected identifier, string or number` in der :xfile:`lino.js`.
    
  - Versuche beim Diagnostizieren von Ticket :doc:`/tickets/9`
  
  - `DatabaseError: no such column: links_link.type_id` kam daher, 
    dass in 
    :mod:`initdb_tim <lino.modlib.dsbe.management.commands.initdb_tim>`
    in der Argumentliste von `call_command('reset')` noch `links` fehlte.


Unsympatische Einstellung
-------------------------

Randbemerkung.
Während meiner Suche zu :doc:`/tickets/9` las ich 
im Wiki von modwsgi einen Artikel 
`Integration With Django 
<http://code.google.com/p/modwsgi/wiki/IntegrationWithDjango>`_
über Django-spezifische Probleme. 
Dort steht:

  (...) one might assume that Django itself does not actually have specific 
  problems when used with a multi threaded server configuration. 
  Unfortunately no definitive statement has been made by the Django developers 
  that this is the case or not. Recent investigations by third parties 
  are however starting to uncover some issues related to multithreading:

    http://code.djangoproject.com/wiki/DjangoSpecifications/Core/Threading
    
Und wenn man dann nachschaut, steht unter der besagten Seite:

  This page and several others were created by a wiki user who was not 
  and is not a member of the Django core team. Previous contents of 
  this and other similar pages are not and should not be confused 
  with Django's own documentation, which remains the sole source of 
  official documentation for the Django project.
  
Wenn ich richtig vermute, ist das ein weiteres Beispiel dafür, 
wie allergisch die Django-Maintainer auf Informationen reagieren, 
die möglicherweise kritisch sein könnten.
Ich will diese Einstellung (falls meine Vermutung stimmt) 
nicht einmal definitiv verurteilen, 
aber *sympatisch* finde ich das nicht.