20101115
========

watch_tim now as a daemon
-------------------------

How to run a Django management command as a daemon?
That was easy.
I downloaded Sean Creeley's `daemonextension <https://gist.github.com/125559>`_ 
module which made it easy to turn :mod:`watch_tim <lino.modlib.dsbe.management.commands.watch_tim>` 
into a well-behaved daemon.
I added this recipe to `lino.utils.daemonextension` (copyright notice remains unchanged).
daemonextension needs two other Python modules to be installed:
`python-daeon <http://pypi.python.org/pypi/python-daemon>`_
and `lockfile <http://pypi.python.org/pypi/lockfile/0.7>`_.
Modified :doc:`/admin/install`.
Under Windows (or if one of these modules is not installed), 
watch_tim  will simply run as a normal process in the terminal.


Launching OOo server
--------------------

Also mit LibreOffice funktioniert appy.pod zumindest auf Anhieb nicht.
Versuchen wir zunächst mal, ob es mit einer neueren Version von OOo 
(die ich manuell installieren muss) funktioniert. 

Also nochmal ungefähr das Gleiche wie :doc:`gestern <1114>`::
  
  wget http://download.services.openoffice.org/files/localized/de/3.2.1/OOo_3.2.1_Linux_x86-64_install-deb_de.tar.gz
  tar -xvzf OOo_3.2.1_Linux_x86-64_install-deb_de.tar.gz
  cd OOO320_m18_native_packed-1_de.9502/DEBS
  sudo dpkg -i desktop-integration/libreoffice3.3-debian-menus_3.3-1_all.deb
  
Dann den Server starten::
  
  sudo soffice "-accept=socket,host=localhost,port=8100;urp;StarOffice.ServiceManager" -nologo -headless -nofirststartwizard  

Und nach einigen weiteren kleinen Problemchen... klappt es!

TODO: Jetzt muss ich noch rausfinden, wie ich die beiden folgenden Befehle in einem Startup-Skript starte::

    /usr/local/django/myproject/watch_tim
    soffice "-accept=socket,host=localhost,port=8100;urp;StarOffice.ServiceManager" -nologo -headless -nofirststartwizard 
  
  
Miscellaneous
-------------

- Person is no longer Printable, because this will rather confuse the users.
  Once there will be a general button "Printer-friendly view".
  
- Contracts are now mostly read-only when they have been printed (`Contract.disabled_fields`).
  The flag `must_build` ist set to False after the first build (`PrintAction.get_target_url`).