20101116
========

OpenOffice server startup script
--------------------------------

A Google search about "OpenOffice server daemon" led me to some interesting readings:

- http://sourceforge.net/projects/oodaemon/ : 
  (September 2009)
  "Open Office Server Daemon based on older daemon written in python (oood). 
  Open Office is unstable as a server (memory leaks, not multithreaded, ...), 
  this daemon makes it working in long-term without having to 
  change anything in your code."
  (`readme <http://oodaemon.sourceforge.net/README.html>`)
  
- `Chapter 46 of the Nuxeo Reference Guide 
  <http://doc.nuxeo.org/5.3/books/nuxeo-book/html/admin-openoffice.html>`_
  is a good documentation of the topic.
  It mentions and refers to an `oooctl control script 
  <http://svn.nuxeo.org/nuxeo/tools/ooo/oooctl>`_ included with Nuxeo.


However this script is for OOo before 2.3 (still uses Xvfb).
I removed the Xvfb parts and also the automagic search for the SOFFICE 
binary and include it to the Lino repository as :srcref:`/bash/oood`
(TODO: But what about the copyright notice?)

  
Some more readings:

- `Manage Linux init or startup scripts
  <http://www.debianadmin.com/manage-linux-init-or-startup-scripts.html>`_.
- `Making scripts run at boot time with Debian <http://www.debian-administration.org/articles/28>`_
  
Now finally here is how to do it::

    # cp /var/snapshots/lino/bash/oood /etc/init.d
    # chmod 755 /etc/init.d/oood
    # update-rc.d oood defaults
    update-rc.d: warning: /etc/init.d/oood missing LSB information
    update-rc.d: see <http://wiki.debian.org/LSBInitScripts>
     Adding system startup for /etc/init.d/oood ...
       /etc/rc0.d/K20oood -> ../init.d/oood
       /etc/rc1.d/K20oood -> ../init.d/oood
       /etc/rc6.d/K20oood -> ../init.d/oood
       /etc/rc2.d/S20oood -> ../init.d/oood
       /etc/rc3.d/S20oood -> ../init.d/oood
       /etc/rc4.d/S20oood -> ../init.d/oood
       /etc/rc5.d/S20oood -> ../init.d/oood

Added these instructions to :doc:`/admin/install`.

(TODO: `How to LSBize an Init Script <http://wiki.debian.org/LSBInitScripts>`_)

Miscellaneous changes
---------------------

- trying to print contract #1 produced 
  "Exception: Build method u'appypdf' doesn't exist.". 
  This was because appy.pod couldn't be imported after upgrade to 0.6.0.
  :func:`lino.thanks_to` now displays appy.pod also when not installed.

- bug fixed: 
  Print Button in Detail view of a slave report didn't set the correct mk. 
  For example in ContractsByPerson it used the primary key of the current Contract.
  
- bug fixed: 
  when calling "print" from Detail view, the `fmt:print` parameter was 
  stored as base parameter, causing subsequent navigation buttons to fail.

- Updated release 0.8.12 in Eupen and marked repository as `hg tag -f v0.8.12`.

- A first known (and now fixed) bug in the above release ist that the following new feature 
  didn't yet work at all:
  "Contracts are now mostly read-only when they have been printed (`Contract.disabled_fields`).
  The flag `must_build` ist set to False after the first build (`PrintAction.get_target_url`)."
  
  Now it works basically, but the calling grid or detail view doesn't 
  get refreshed after printing or saving, so it won't have the correct must_build 
  flag and disabled_fields.

OpenOffice server startup script continued
------------------------------------------

More reading about this topic:

- `Install Openoffice headless as a service in Ubuntu
  <http://www.openvpms.org/documentation/install-openoffice-headless-service-ubuntu>`_ 
  describes almost exactly what I found out myself... 
  except that the script there (Vic Vijayakumar & Federico Ch. Tomasczik) uses a PID file 
  and has no `restart` option while Florent Guillaume's script uses 
  `ps axw` (BSD syntax) which works on both linux and Mac OS X, and has a `restart` 
  option.

- `OpenOffice Converter Installation instructions 
  <http://code.google.com/p/openmeetings/wiki/OpenOfficeConverter>`_



On Debian Lenny, OOo is < 2.3, so it seems to me that installing manually 
a recent copy is at least okay.

I think I'd better wait a few months before writing documentation about all this, 
since things are moving there. LibreOffice 
