20101124
========

The action framework gets adult
-------------------------------

This was a challenging one:

- After printing or saving, the calling grid or detail should  
  get refreshed, because printing usually will set the must_build flag,
  and every change in general may modify `disabled_fields`.
  
The "clear cache" button now also works. 

ExtUI now calls `RowAction.run()` for these Actions. 
Currently only for RowAction, but this might be generalized (later).
That's finally the missing piece in Lino's actions framework.

"Edit Template" button for Printables
-------------------------------------

- Make doctemplates editable using webdav. 
  New button "edit template" on PrintableType or Printable.
  Instructions in :doc:`/admin/install`.

The doctemplates directory (which until now was in 
``settings.PROJET_DIR + "/doctemplates"``) 
is now expected to be in 
``settings.MEDIA_ROOT + "/webdav/doctemplates"``. 

Removed bottom toolbar from grid
--------------------------------

In a Detail with slave grids there were too many buttons.
As a first suggestion for fixing this, I removed the bottom toolbar completely.
The row actions of a grid are now only in context menu of each row. 
The "Save GC" button has become a tool of the window 
and can be used only when the record is in its own window.
TODO: doubleclick should open the detail, and F2 should start editing the cell.


`Check-in <http://code.google.com/p/lino/source/detail?r=4db25420bab3035b1b30303baff0b1803ecb8d9f>`_. 
(Most basic things seem to work. 
Most urgent issue is now the drag&drop functionality.)