20110528
========


The first Lino tutorial
-----------------------

This morning I woke up with an idea for the first Lino tutorial: 
:doc:`/admin/dpytutorial`

Customizable format of text fields
----------------------------------

There are currently at least two big usage profiles for text fields: 
plain and formatted.

To get a formatted text field, you needed to declare it 
`fields.HtmlTextField` instead of `models.TextField`.

Not bad, but there was no way to locally customize whether a 
text field is formatted or not.
And "formatted" means currently 'html', but there me be more choices in the future.
I finally had a vision about how to make this configurable:

New global option :attr:`lino.apps.std.settings.Lino.textfield_format`

- :mod:`lino.fields`: class HtmlTextField renamed to :class:`lino.fields.RichTextField`
- :mod:`lino.ui.extjs3.ext_elems` : Merged class HtmlTextFieldElement into TextFieldElement.

notes.Note.body as well as the text fields in dsbe.Contract 
now use this new feature.


Emulate another user
--------------------

The superuser can now emulate requests of other users.
Practical for testing.
Currently you need to manually edit the URL address, 
adding ``?euser=foo`` (or ``&euser=foo``)

So there is a wew URL parameter "euser" 
(`lino.ui.requests.URL_PARAM_EUSER`) 
which is added to the list of forbidden field names.

Miscellaneous
-------------

- Removed virtual field Note.body_html because it is no longer needed.
- Fixed a bug when a previously saved GC was invalid and validate() returned must_save

`Check-in
<http://code.google.com/p/lino/source/detail?r=b69b54cbb6e36a012b4cefb71a5bf0b16c57f053>`_