20110609
========

Worked on pp2lino
-----------------

New field `street_prefix` in :class:`lino.modlib.contacts.models.Addressable`
is needed because snail mailings need to be sorted by street, and street 
names in french may have a prefix that must be printed but is not relevant 
for the sort order.

Continued on :mod:`lino.apps.dsbe.fixtures.pp2lino`.

Released :doc:`/releases/20110609`.


Miscellaneous
-------------

- A stupid bug caused the Layout Editor for `.dtl` to not work. 

- Some optimization in :func:`lino.utils.log.configure`:

  - Used to *always* set the level for the terminal to INFO. 
    Now only if there is a logfile.
    
  - Changed default value of `maxBytes` from 100K to 1MB,
    changed default value of `backupCount` from 5 to 10.
    Both parameters may now be overridden in :setting:`LOGGING`.
  
Making TinyMCE readonly
-----------------------

There ws a bug in Ext.ux.TinyMCE : the disable() function didn't set the `disabled` 
property to true. I need this when opening TinMCE in a separate window (where it 
will get its `readonly` config option from `panel.editor.disabled`).

Getting the inline TinyMCE readonly is more tricky. Ext.ux.TinyMCE's disable() 
function sets the class to `mceNonEditable`, so I added the following style 
to my :xfile:`lino.css`::

  body.mceNonEditable {
    color: blue !important; 
  }

But that wasn't enough, I also had to set `tinymceSettings.content_css` 
to ``'/media/lino/extjs/lino.css'`` because otherwise TinyMCE looks only 
at its own (theme.dependant) CSS.

Now the inline TinyMCE (of a closed Note) has blue text, but 
it is still not readonly.
The method explained 
`here <http://www.sencha.com/forum/showthread.php?40640-Dynamic-readOnly-fields!>`_ 
and
`there <http://www.w3schools.com/jsref/prop_textarea_readonly.asp>`_
doesn't seem to work for me. 

Aha, there's a plugin called "noneditable". That helps. 
It disables all buttons and makes the text noneditable. 

One detail left: it updates only when the user clicks into the text area.
Since the text color is already blu before, that's only cosmetic.

Checkin 20110609b, but the release is for tomorrow.

Maybe this will help:
http://tinymce.moxiecode.com/forum/viewtopic.php?id=13337