20110806
========

Upload files with non-ascii names
---------------------------------

This week I tried to understand why in Eupen we cannot 
upload files with non-ascii characters in their name.

I added a new file :src:`/lino/tests/misc/diag.py` (converted from 
the older ``timtools diag`` command). 

On Jana this didn't even run because there were no locales installed:
the value of `LANG` was simply `"C"`;
typing the :kbd:`ö` key on my Estonian keyboard produced some strange 
effects, but not a letter "ö".
The solution was simple (now that I found it)::

  sudo dpkg-reconfigure locales
  
This was probably because Jana was installed from some Proxmox's default 
Debian template.


New application "Concise Reference Labels" (:mod:`crl <lino.apps.crl>`)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

My father has worked as director in several libraries, 
and although he recently turned 78, he doesn't stop advocating 
a labeling system he discovered and developed throughout his life.
In September 2009 he published an article 
`De l'ordre dans les idées <http://luc.saffre-rumma.net/1343.html>`_
about it.

My father didn't yet worry to find a name for 
this labeling system he developed throughout his life.
I'll call it **Concise Reference Labels**. 
It is based on the observation that printed books in a library have 
limited space for labels.
Now imagine a classical library, where humans 
directly manipulate lots of books and 
need to find the right place for each.
In this situation it is useful to have a 
codification system that is easy to remember 
(at least for the people who use it every day).

The classical approaches in the western world for this are
`UDC <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Universal_Decimal_Classification>`_
and `DDC <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dewey_Decimal_Classification>`_.
They both have one disadvantage: they don't use the full range 
of "rememberable characters" and thus need relatively much space 
on a label.


