20110809
========

One bug less
------------

The following traceback happened when user left the job field of a contract empty::

  File "l:\snapshots\django\django\core\handlers\base.py", line 111, in get_response
    response = callback(request, *callback_args, **callback_kwargs)

  File "t:\hgwork\lino\lino\ui\extjs3\ext_ui.py", line 983, in api_list_view
    return self.form2obj_and_save(request,rh,request.POST,instance,True)

  File "t:\hgwork\lino\lino\ui\extjs3\ext_ui.py", line 855, in form2obj_and_save
    elem.full_clean()

  File "t:\hgwork\lino\lino\modlib\jobs\models.py", line 417, in full_clean
    self.hourly_rate = self.job.hourly_rate

  File "l:\snapshots\django\django\db\models\fields\related.py", line 302, in __get__
    raise self.field.rel.to.DoesNotExist


UnicodeError while saving uploaded files with non-ascii chars
-------------------------------------------------------------

I continued the work started 
2 weeks ago for the 
:doc:`(d) UnicodeEncodeError at /api/uploads/UploadsByOwner <0725>`.

Here is again our traceback::

  Traceback:
  File "/var/snapshots/django/django/core/handlers/base.py" in get_response
    111.                         response = callback(request, *callback_args, **callback_kwargs)
  File "/var/snapshots/lino/lino/ui/extjs3/ext_ui.py" in api_list_view
    982.                 rh.report.handle_uploaded_files(request,instance)
  File "/var/snapshots/lino/lino/reports.py" in f
    715.         return m(obj,request)
  File "/var/snapshots/lino/lino/mixins/uploadable.py" in handle_uploaded_files
    85.         ff.save(uf.name,uf,save=False)
  File "/var/snapshots/django/django/db/models/fields/files.py" in save
    90.         self.name = self.storage.save(name, content)
  File "/var/snapshots/django/django/core/files/storage.py" in save
    48.         name = self.get_available_name(name)
  File "/var/snapshots/django/django/core/files/storage.py" in get_available_name
    74.         while self.exists(name):
  File "/var/snapshots/django/django/core/files/storage.py" in exists
    233.         return os.path.exists(self.path(name))
  File "/usr/lib/python2.6/genericpath.py" in exists
    18.         st = os.stat(path)
    
    
.. note::

  One problem is that Django doesn't recognize our POST request 
  as `is_ajax <https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/ref/request-response/#django.http.HttpRequest.is_ajax>`_ 
  and thus the traceback is difficult to see.

  Tried to add a ``headers: { 'HTTP_X_REQUESTED_WITH' : 'XMLHttpRequest'}`` 
  to the `panel.form.submit()` call... without success.
  But okay, let's concentrate on the error itself. 
  
Here is again some code that tries to reproduce the effect::

  import os
  from django.utils._os import safe_join

  fn = u'\xfc'
  fn = safe_join('foo',fn)
  fn = os.path.normpath(fn)
  print repr(fn)
  print os.path.exists(fn)
  print os.stat(fn)
  
Result: negative. This code runs without problem. Hm...


New feature "out-of-the-box doctemplates"
-----------------------------------------

Opened ticket :doc:`/tickets/46` because this was not trivial and 
I thought to let this ticket wait until real need grows.
Later I changed my mind and did it right now.

The only but important advantage of this change is that Lino applications
can now provide "default templates". 

I removed EditTemplateAction : this functionality anyway didnt work yet, 
and now it would be even more difficult to implement this feature.

When upgrading, the local :xfile:`doctemplates` directory needs to be 
moved from `media/webdav` to `config`. 
Add a symbolic link to it in the webdav directory for keeping the 
files editable through webdav.
And then it must also get a structure lifting: 

- rename directories `contracts` to `jobs.Contact`, 
  `notes` to `notes.Note` and `persons` to `contact.Person`.

- Instead of one directory per language I opted 
  for the `foo_xx.odt` solution:
  If a template `foo.odt` exists, then a file `foo_fr.odt` 
  means "the french version of `foo.odt`". 
  Note that the default template `foo.odt` *must* exist, 
  otherwise Lino will consider a file 
  `foo_fr.odt` itself a default template. 


Check-in wegen Feierabend.