20110818
========

About Mixins
------------

Renamed the `Sendable` mixin to `Mailable`, and changed its 
label from "Send email" to "Create email". 
Because it doesn't actually send a Mail, just creates it in the database. 
Since this mixin depends on `lino.modlib.mails`, 
I moved it from `lino.mixins.sendable` to `lino.modlib.mails.models`.
The package `lino.mixins` should be only for "general" mixins.




Continued with CalDAV
---------------------

Continued to work on :doc:`/tickets/47`.

:class:`lino.modlib.cal.Event` needs a new field `uid`.

Excerpt from RFC 5545:

  The `uid` of an event is REQUIRED and MUST NOT occur more than once.
  The "UID" itself MUST be a globally unique identifier.
  The generator of the identifier MUST guarantee that the identifier
  is unique.  There are several algorithms that can be used to
  accomplish this.  A good method to assure uniqueness is to put the
  domain name or a domain literal IP address of the host on which
  the identifier was created on the right-hand side of an "@", and
  on the left-hand side, put a combination of the current calendar
  date and time of day (i.e., formatted in as a DATE-TIME value)
  along with some other currently unique (perhaps sequential)
  identifier available on the system (for example, a process id
  number).  Using a DATE-TIME value on the left-hand side and a
  domain name or domain literal on the right-hand side makes it
  possible to guarantee uniqueness since no two hosts should be
  using the same domain name or IP address at the same time.  Though
  other algorithms will work, it is RECOMMENDED that the right-hand
  side contain some domain identifier (either of the host itself or
  otherwise) such that the generator of the message identifier can
  guarantee the uniqueness of the left-hand side within the scope of
  that domain.


Google has UIDs like `680h46e2vng9h936b1a53fmdk0@google.com`. 

New local Lino configuration class attribute :attr:`lino.Lino.uid`: 
a universal identifier for this Lino site. 
This is needed for synchronization with CalDAV server; 
calendar components created by Lino will get a UID 
``"%s@%s" (self.pk,settings.LINO.ui)``.

*When* should synchronization *from* the 
remote calendar *into* our database happen? 
Only upon request (either manually or as a cron job)? 
Or another daemon that automatically pulls changes every minute?




