20110822
========

a) BabelNamed
-------------

New mixin :class:`lino.utils.babel.BabelNamed`. 
Used by 
:class:`lino.modlib.contacts.models.ContactType`
:class:`lino.modlib.contacts.models.CompanyType`
:class:`lino.modlib.countries.models.Language`
:class:`lino.modlib.countries.models.Country`
:class:`lino.modlib.notes.models.EventType`
:class:`lino.modlib.products.models.ProductCat`
:class:`lino.modlib.products.models.Product`
:class:`lino.modlib.sales.models.PaymentTerm`
:class:`lino.modlib.sales.models.InvoicingMode`
:class:`lino.modlib.sales.models.ShippingMode`
:class:`lino.modlib.properties.models.PropType`
:class:`lino.modlib.properties.models.PropGroup`
:class:`lino.modlib.properties.models.Property`
:class:`lino.modlib.cal.models.AttendanceRole`
:class:`lino.modlib.contracts.models.ContractType`
:class:`lino.modlib.contracts.models.ExamPolicy`
:class:`lino.apps.dsbe.models.StudyType`
:class:`lino.apps.dsbe.models.AidType`

This removes a lot of code redundance without modifying the database structure.

Checkin 20110822a


b) Changes in :mod:`lino.modlib.contacts`
-----------------------------------------

I opened :doc:`/tickets/48`.

A few changes in the database structure, 
but a big step in Lino's evolution:
Persons & Companies get a common non-abstract model `Contact`.
This change is triggered by our need for a 
user-friendly way to add recipients to an OutMail.
A Contact will be "a Company, a Person, a User or a Group of Contacts".

- The current model `ContactType` gets renamed to `Role`.
- The current model `Contact` gets renamed to `RoleOccurence`.
- The current model `Addressable` gets renamed to `Contact` and becomes concrete.

This is the first time that we have more than one level of multi-table inheritance:

  Contact --> Company --> CourseProvider
  
This caused to some design decisions about loading .dtl files 
and the default app_label of a Report:

- the app_label of a Report is *always* taken from the model. 
  Subclasses cannot set it manually.
  
- `.dtl` files now override each other by their name. 
  For example if Lino finds a file `1.dtl` for each of Contact, 
  Company and CourseProvider, then CourseProvider uses only its 
  own version of that detail.
  
Checkin 20110822b
