20110823
========

Continued to work on :doc:`/tickets/48`.

- renamed Attendance to Attendee and AttendanceRole to AttendeeRole
  because an "attendance role" is a sheet where attendees write their name. 
  AttendeeRole is the role attributed to an attendee.
  
- Attendee is a :class:`lino.modlib.contacts.models.ContactDocument`, not a 
  :class:`lino.modlib.contacts.models.PartnerDocument`.
  
- New ``demo`` fixture for `lino.modlib.cal` adds some 
  examples of :class:`lino.modlib.cal.models.AttendeeRole`.
  
- :class:`lino.modlib.users.models.User` is now also a Contact. 
  We changed the default value of `next_partner_id` 
  from 1 to 100, otherwise the demo fixtures would fail 
  when creating a first Person because the users demo fixture 
  had previously created 
  some users who got ids 1, 2 and 3.
  
Different Contacts with same email address
------------------------------------------

What happens it two contacts have the same email address?
The first version of :mod:`lino.modlib.email` (before 
:doc:`yesterday </tickets/48>`) 
showed all emails on each contact because MailsByPerson and 
MailsByCompany were based on the email address field of Recipient.
The new version not, it shows the emails based on the contact 
ForeignKey field of Recipient.
This behaviour seems more user-friendly, but we will have a 
problem for triaging incoming mails: if a recipient's address 
exists on more than one Contact, Lino will have to decide which 
of them to use as ForeignKey. 

Two contacts having the same email address should be rare in practice:

- Small companies sometimes use the email address of one of 
  their employees as primary contact address.
  
- Wife and husband using a common address.

One possibility is to add a checkbox field "uses email address of another 
contact", which would cause incoming mails to be attributed to the other 
contact.


Recurrent events
----------------

New model :class:`lino.modlib.cal.models.RecurrenceSet`.
Lino has started to support recurrent events,
:term:`watch_calendars` extracts more and more info from a google calendar.
There's still a lot to do.

Projects
--------

A spontaneous idea shortly before stopping for today: 
the new :class:`lino.mixins.ProjectRelated` mixin.
It's a mixin which *sometimes* (if :attr:`lino.Lino.projects_model` 
is set) adds a foreignkey field::

  class ProjectRelated(models.Model):
      class Meta:
          abstract = True
      if settings.LINO.projects_model:
          project = models.ForeignKey(settings.LINO.projects_model,blank=True,null=True)

This is to be used instead of making models like 
Note, Link, Event, Task abstract just 
to be able to link them to "something application specific" 
(in Lino/DSBE this is a person and/or company 
but in fact they always just wanted a person: 14 of 1000 
notes currently have a nonempty company field).

In a first step we use this just for Tasks and Events.
      
Database migration to 1.2.2
---------------------------

It's time for a release because the database migration to 1.2.2 
is getting quite complex after all these changes. 
Added :func:`lino.apps.dsbe.migrate.migrate_from_1_2_1`.
Tested on a recent dump of real data.

Check-in 20110823