20110906
========

Minor bugfixes
--------------

#.  Fixed the bug "Switching off an 
    `mti.EnableChild` deletes related objects"
    (discovered :doc:`0831`).
    If you now switch off the ´is_courseprovider´ field of a Company,
    and if that Company (as a CourseProvider) has Courses defined,
    then you'll get a ValidationError "Cannot delete <name of 
    CourseProvider> because it has at least one course".

#.  :modmeth:`disabled_fields` of :class:`lino.modlib.jobs.models.Job`:
    Stelle bearbeiten können wenn noch kein *ausgedruckter* Vertrag vorliegt.
    
Checkin 20110906.

General Lino test suite
-----------------------

The general Lino test suite (``make test`` in root of Lino's source tree) 
was broken. Now almost ready again.

The biggest problem was that :mod:`lino.test_apps.1` used `users` 
but not `contacts`. And users now depends on contacts. 
New feature: It is now possible to define a userless site by setting 
:attr:`lino.Lino.user_model` to `None`.

One problem renains while 
installing fixture :mod:`lino.apps.dsbe.fixtures.demo`,
"Failed to save independent CourseContent #1 (u'Deutsch'). Abandoned."

Checkin 20110906b.


New module :mod:`lino.modlib.isip`
----------------------------------

Es gibt jetzt zwei Arten von Verträgen: VSE-Verträge 
(:class:`lino.modelib.isip.models.Contract`) 
und Arbeitsverträge 
(:class:`lino.modelib.jobs.models.Contract`).
Dass die bisher in einer einzigen Tabelle waren, war 
offenbar ein Analysefehler.
Beide Modelle haben zwar eine Serie von gemeinsamen Feldern 
(:class:`lino.modelib.isip.models.ContractBase`),
aber eine gemeinsame Historik ist nicht nötig
(sondern die Benutzer wollen die beiden lieber klar getrennt 
haben in zwei Tabellen im Reiter "Verträge" einer Person)

Technisches:
`lino.modlib.jobs` basiert auf `lino.modlib.isip` und nicht umgekehrt. 
Deshalb sind die Modelle ExamPolicy und ContractEnding 
jetzt in `isip`, nicht mehr in `jobs`.
Ein Modell `ContractType` gibt es in beiden Modulen.

Checkin 20110906c.

Data migration
--------------



Checkin 20110906d.


