20110914
========

Mails
-----

Database change in :mod:`lino.modlib.mails`: there's only one table 
`Mail`, not two separate tables `OutMail` and `InMail`.

Job Requests
------------

Tilt! :mod:`lino.modlib.jobs` does not need a PersonsByOffer, 
but a RequestsByOffer.
Entering a Job Offer now gives reasonable results in the "Candidate" 
slave grid.
Added some sectors and functions in dsbe/demo fixture.

Sending Mails
-------------

Event instances now also have a "Create Mail" button. 

There was a conceptual problem about the :modmeth:`setup_report` 
model method: we cannot use super() in such a method because 
the ultimate base class of all models, Django's `models.Model` 
class, doesn't have this method. That's why I wrote 
:func:`lino.utils.call_on_bases`. :modelmeth:`setup_report` 
methods should not call `super()`, but Lino will call 
automagically call the `setup_report` method of all base 
classes. This also means that you cannot avoid them being called 
(as would be possible if we could use `super()`) 

Deleting Mails
--------------

Lino refused to delete a Mail when it had Recipients. 
You had to delete the Recipients first.

To solve this, we added the magic :modmeth:`allow_cascaded_delete` 
Model attribute.

This is now set to True in the following models:

|:class:`lino.modlib.uploads.models.Upload`
|:class:`lino.modlib.mails.models.Recipient`
|:class:`lino.modlib.mails.models.Attachment`
|:class:`lino.modlib.links.models.Link`

Deleting a row didn't refresh the grid
--------------------------------------

The action's `after_success` (set to the panel's `after_delete`) 
was never called after a successful DELETE action because the 
response to DELETE has no response text.

As a result, when do_action now calls `after_success`, it now no 
longer passes the result as first parameter (a feature which wasn't 
used anyway).


Translations
------------

Upated German and French translation files.


classmethod objects have no `im_func` in Python 2.6
---------------------------------------------------

Mist, mein Trick mit :func:`lino.utils.call_on_bases` 
von heute morgen funktioniert nicht in Python 2.6.

Mal überlegen: was will ich eigentlich?
Also ich will, dass man in Models optional eine Klassenmethode namens 
`setup_report` definieren kann, die dann von jedem Report mit diesem 
Model aufgerufen wird. 
Das ging zunächst ganz gut, aber wenn ich ein Model mit mehreren Basisklassen 
definiere von denen einige so eine Methode haben, dann musste ich dran denken, 
dort auch eine setup_report zu schreiben, die das dispatching macht. 
Z.B. in `cal.Guest`::

    @classmethod
    def setup_report(cls,rpt):
        mixins.CachedPrintable.setup_report(rpt)
        Mailable.setup_report(rpt)

`super()` kann ich nicht benutzen, weil `django.db.models.Model` 
keine Methode `setup_report` hat.

Ich habe noch mit einer :func:`lino.utils.call_optional_super` probiert, 
aber das klappt auch nicht.

Also weiterhin wie bisher: Vorsicht wenn ich ein Modell mit mehreren Mixins 
definiere: Falls mehr als eine der Basisklassen eine `setup_report` hat, 
muss ich auch selber eine `setup_report` definieren, 
die die `setup_report` der Basisklassen aufruft. 
Wenn ich das nicht mache, wird nur die erstbeste `setup_report` gerufen.
Doof, aber so isses.
