20110922
========


Banque Carrefour de la Sécurité Sociale
---------------------------------------

Heute starten mit dem Projekt "Anbindung an die BCSS".

Die :term:`BCSS` ist eine belgische nationale Datenbank, 
in der persönliche Daten zur sozialen Sicherheit gespeichert 
sind. Der Zugang ist streng geregelt und gut abgesichert, 
aber jedes normale ÖSHZ hat einen Zugang dazu.

Ausgangspunkt ist eine Serie von 10 Dokumenten, 
die man 
`hier 
<http://www.ksz-bcss.fgov.be/fr/bcss/page/content/websites/belgium/services/docutheque/webservices_architecture/Documentation-web.html>`_  
runterladen kann.

ZSI
---

Ich habe daraufhin `wsdl2py` gefunden, das ein Teil von `ZSI
<http://pywebsvcs.sourceforge.net/>`_ ist.

Hier zwei erste Beispiele (angepasst aus der Doku von ZSI)

Server:

.. literalinclude:: 0922/soapserver.py

Client:

.. literalinclude:: 0922/soapclient.py

N.B.: die letzte releaste Version 2.0 funktioniert nicht mit neueren Python-Versionen. Aber ZSI-2.1-a1.tar.gz wohl.

One problem with the ZSI documentation is that 
the examples there don't work anymore 
because the respective servers have 
disappeared or modified their service.

Through `www.xmethods.net <http://www.xmethods.net/ve2/ViewListing.po?key=467143>`_ 
I found the countries service by `www.mobilefish.com` which seems to work.

::

  wsdl2py http://www.mobilefish.com/services/web_service/countries.php?wsdl

This created ndeed the 3 files
:file:`countries_webservice_mobilefish_com_client.py`,
:file:`xxx_server.py`
and
:file:`xxx_types.py`.
But even now I didn't manage to get an example request to work.
Here is where I abandoned:

.. literalinclude:: 0922/wsd2py_ltest.py

SOAPpy
------

I discovered that 
`Dive Into Python <http://diveintopython.org/soap_web_services/>`_
has a chapter on SOAP.

Only a few minor problems:

- SOAPpy caused a traceback 
  "SyntaxError: from __future__ imports must occur at the beginning of the file" 
  in Python 2.7, but that was easy to fix, and only 3 files were concerned.

- Oops, the example in DIP is also obsolete:
  Google says 
  "We are no longer issuing new API keys for the SOAP Search API."
  http://code.google.com/intl/de/apis/soapsearch/api_faq.html#price1

But it wasn't difficult to write my own script :file:`inspect_wsdl.py`:

.. literalinclude:: 0922/inspect_wsdl.py

If I call it like this::

  python inspect_wsdl.py http://www.mobilefish.com/services/web_service/countries.php?wsdl

Then the output is::

  http://www.mobilefish.com/services/web_service/countries.php?wsdl
  countryInfoByIana(string ianacode)
    --> CountryData countryinfo
  getIANAInfo()
    --> IANAList ianalist
  regionsInfoByIana(string ianacode)
    --> RegionList regionlist
  <SOAPpy.Types.structType return at 15857024>: {'countryname': 'Belgium', 'latitude': 50.503887, 'longitude': 4.469936, '  ianacode': 'be'}


Inspecting the BCSS
-------------------

Launching `inspect_wsdl.py` on a BCSS server, I get only one method::

  sendXML(xmlString requestXML)
    --> xmlString replyXML

... which is of course not very instructive *per se* ...

Next step will be to get the XSDs to be used for `requestXML` and `replyXML`.
