20110928
========

Swapping NoteType and EventType
===============================

Die Felder `Kontruktionsmethode` und `Vorlage` (die den Ausdruck bestimmen) 
müssen aus der Notizart rüber zur Ereignisart. 
Oder anders gesagt: der Inhalt beider Tabellen muss ausgetauscht 
werden. 

Anschließend muss lediglich der Lebenslauf manuell aus der Liste 
"Form" in die Liste "Inhalt" verschoben werden.

Die Benutzer werden diese Änderung gar nicht bemerken.

- notes.Note : `verbose_name` changed:

  ============ ==================== ====================
  Field        before               after
  ============ ==================== ====================
  `type`       Note Type (Form)     Note Type (Content)
  `event_type` Event Type (Content) Event Type (Form)
  ============ ==================== ====================

- notes.NoteType is now also a `babel.BabelNamed`.

- Adapted :func:`lino.apps.dsbe.migrate.migrate_from_1_2_2`

ERROR: 'Contact with this ID already exists.'
---------------------------------------------

This happened in :term:`watch_tim` when 
`PAR.swap_class` was called (i.e. when TIM data was 
modified so that a Person became a Company or vice-versa).
This bug was due to :doc:`/tickets/48` (since :doc:`/blog/2011/0822`).

When fixing this bug I fixed a related bug that wasn't yet discovered:
When a a Person became a Company or vice-versa, then all related data in Lino 
(e.g. contact persons) were *deleted*.
Now a swapping will delete only the data that needs to be deleted 
(i.e. person specific data when a person becomes a company).


Preparing release 1.2.3
-----------------------

- Adapted :func:`lino.apps.dsbe.migrate.migrate_from_1_2_2` 
  to the changes of :doc:`/blog/2011/0915`.
  
  
  
Disable fields in imported Contacts
-----------------------------------

The following todo was more challenging than one could expect:

- :menuselection:`Kontakte --> Alle Kontakte`: 
  in dieser Liste konnte man bisher auch importierte Partner 
  bearbeiten. Behoben.

We had to redefine a Report `dsbe.AllContacts` to install the 
application specific behaviour for disabled_fields.

There was a bug, too: 
when `disabled_fields` was defined on a *Report* (not on the Model), 
then the method was called with the wrong parameter order.

It wasn't yet possible to disable virtual fields. Now it is.

Another undiscovered bug: The `id` field of a Company or Person
gets never disabled. A request
http://localhost:8080/api/contacts/Companies/199233?an=detail&fmt=json
returns the following value for `disabled_fields`::

  [ "name", "remarks", "zip_code", "city", "country", "street", "street_no", 
  "street_box", "language", "vat_id", "phone", "fax", "email", 
  "bank_account1", "bank_account2", "activity", 
  "contact_ptr", "contact_ptr", "contact_ptr", "contact_ptr", 
  "contact_ptr", "contact_ptr", "contact_ptr", "contact_ptr", 
  "contact_ptr", "contact_ptr", "contact_ptr", "contact_ptr", 
  "contact_ptr", "contact_ptr" ]

Note that there was one "contact_ptr" added at each request. 
This bug is fixed.
But the `id` field is still not disabled.
