20111006
========

Tring to get the test suite running on `wsl`.

:mod:`lino.apps.dsbe.fixtures.demo` now 
uses the romanized form "Tatjana Kasennova"
instead of "Татьяна Казеннова". 

The idea behind this was to show that cyrillic characters are supported.
But this was more: it was a mix of cyrillic and other alphabets in a same 
table column.
While sqlite accepts this and doesn't really bother about how to 
sort them correctly,
MySQL with charset ``utf8`` and the default 
collation ``utf8_general_ci`` does *not accept*
cyrillic characters, saying::

  Warning: Incorrect string value: '\xD0\x9A\xD0\xB0\xD0\xB7...' for column 'name' at row 1
  
So this example was not very useful and needs special configuration 
tricks on MySQL. 



:func:`lino.tools.obj2str` now handles the fact that values of an `AutoField` 
are sometimes simple ``int`` and somtimes ``long`` integers.

The following failure comes when using Django 1.3 (and not a pre-1.4 snapshot)::

  ======================================================================
  ERROR: test_shortcut_view (django.contrib.contenttypes.tests.ContentTypesTests)
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------
  Traceback (most recent call last):
    File "/var/snapshots/django/django/contrib/contenttypes/tests.py", line 64, in test_shortcut_view
      obj = User.objects.create(username="john")
    ...
    File "/usr/lib/pymodules/python2.6/MySQLdb/connections.py", line 35, in defaulterrorhandler
      raise errorclass, errorvalue
  DatabaseError: (1146, "Table 'test_myproject.auth_user' doesn't exist")


Accessing the `message` attribute of an `Exception` raises a DeprecationWarning 
in Python 2.6.6, but not in Python 2.7::

  ./var/snapshots/lino/lino/apps/dsbe/tests/dsbe_tests.py:194: 
  DeprecationWarning: BaseException.message has been deprecated as of Python 2.6

(Solved this by testing on ``str(e)`` instead of ``e.message``.)






Here another funny failure that happens in wsl (Python 2.6.6, Django 1.4 pre-alpha SVN-16722) 
but not on jana (Python 2.6.6, Django 1.4 pre-alpha SVN-16714)::

  Problem installing fixture '/var/snapshots/lino/lino/apps/dsbe/fixtures/demo.py': Traceback (most recent call last):
    File "/var/snapshots/django/django/core/management/commands/loaddata.py", line 175, in handle
      for obj in objects:
    ...
    File "/var/snapshots/lino/lino/utils/instantiator.py", line 80, in convert
      model.__name__,lookup_kw,e))
  DataError: RoleType.objects.get(**{'pk': 1}) : RoleType matching query does not exist.

Updated `/var/snapshots/django-1.4` on wsl from revision 16722 to 16941.
Updated `/var/snapshots/django` on jana from revision 16714 to 16941.
Result: failure remains even if both systems have the same Django version. 


Database configurations are equivalent, both have servers something like::

  DATABASES = {
      'default': {
          'ENGINE': 'django.db.backends.mysql',
          'NAME': 'myproject',
          'USER': 'django',
          'PASSWORD': 'my cool password',
          'HOST': '127.0.0.1',
          'PORT': '3306'
      }
  }

How to compare the MySQL server configurations on two systems?
The answer is::

  mysqladmin variables -u root -p > mysql.vars
  
  
Difference:
`storage_engine` was `MyISAM` on jana but `InnoDB` on wsl.
About ` storage engines <http://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.1/en/storage-engines.html>`_:

- MyISAM: The default MySQL storage engine and the one that is used 
  the most in Web, data warehousing, and other application environments. 
  MyISAM is supported in all MySQL configurations, and is the default 
  storage engine unless you have configured MySQL to use a different 
  one by default. 
  
- InnoDB: A transaction-safe (ACID compliant) storage engine for 
  MySQL that has commit, rollback, and crash-recovery capabilities 
  to protect user data. InnoDB row-level locking (without escalation 
  to coarser granularity locks) and Oracle-style consistent nonlocking 
  reads increase multi-user concurrency and performance. InnoDB stores 
  user data in clustered indexes to reduce I/O for common queries based 
  on primary keys. To maintain data integrity, InnoDB also supports 
  FOREIGN KEY referential-integrity constraints.

Currently we use `MyISAM`, later we'll get it running using `InnoDB`.

Another little bug::
  AttributeError: 'module' object has no attribute 'JobRequest'