20111014
========

Manager isn't accessible via Third instances
--------------------------------------------

Another bug fixed: AttributeError 
"Manager isn't accessible via Third instances"
at `/api/thirds/ThirdsByOwner` (when trying to add a new 
record in `ThirdsByOwner`.

Continued on BCSS connection
----------------------------

Dave Kuhlmann sent me a first prototype on how he plans to support `<any>` 
elements in a XSD schema.
It seems that his approach will be a solution for me. 
I cannot currently say more than "It seems"
because now I must first crawl through BCSS documentaton and find out
what they actually expect in that `<any>` element.

Here is what I did: After applying his suggested manual changes to my
`SSDNRequest.py`, I continued to try to get my BCSS request running
(file `test2.py`). Both files are published here:
http://code.google.com/p/lino/source/browse/lino/utils/bcss

Check-in 20111014b.


Removed useless assertion in `choices_view`
-------------------------------------------

Here is the chooser of :meth:`lino.mixins.Owned.owner_id_choices`::

    @chooser(instance_values=True)
    def owner_id_choices(cls,owner_type):
        if owner_type:
            return owner_type.model_class().objects.all()
        return []
        
The last line, ``return []``, was missing.
:meth:`lino.ui.extjs3.ext_ui.ExtUI.choices_view` correctly raised 
an assertion at `/choices/cal/TasksByProject/owner_id`.

A chooser must always return an iterable. 
Usually it is either a `list` or a Django QuerySet. 
If the chooser decides that there are no choices available, 
it must return an empty list, not `None`.

:meth:`lino.ui.extjs3.ext_ui.ExtUI.choices_view` 
and other methods 
might check 
for `None` values and substitute them silently by an empty list, 
but we prefer to avoid bugs caused by code that forgets 
to return something.

Check-in 20111014c.


