20111112
========

user-specific language selection
--------------------------------

More details to do for the support of 
user-specific language selection.

:class:`lino.apps.dsbe.models.CefLevel` overrides `display_text`, 
and this method wasn't yet adapted to yesterday's changes.

There were still some places where Lino translates too early: 

- the headers of tabs
- labels of buttons and menus

Worked on the French translations which are far from being 
perfect but start to get usable.

Das Geschlecht (m/w) einer Person wird in Englisch "Gender" und 
nicht "Sex" genannt. Ich habe jetzt wenigstens die Feldbezeichnung 
geändert. Bei Gelegenheit auch den internen Feldnamen 
(obschon das mehr Arbeit sein wird).

There is one conceptual detail which needed a design decision: 
how to mark **hotkey letters in menu items**.
Until now we had the following temporary solution::

  def prepare_label(mi):
      label = unicode(mi.label) # trigger translation
      n = label.find(mi.HOTKEY_MARKER)
      if n != -1:
          label = label.replace(mi.HOTKEY_MARKER,'')
      return label

This method doesn't work any longer with lazy translation. 
But anyway it wasn't used since lino.ui.extjs3 simply removed the markers.

Listings
--------

Optimizations when printing a :class:`Listing <lino.mixins.printable.Listing>`:

- It didn't use the DavLink applet when 
  :attr:`lino.Lino.use_davlink` was `True`. Fixed.
- It no longer uses a hard-coded site-wide template "Listing.odt" 
  but a `Default.odt` in the model's config directory.

Check-in 20111112b


Miscellaneous Bugfixes
----------------------

- Candidates of a Course : this print action was erroneously moved 
  from Course to CourseOffer. Fixed.

- The Labels of menu entries for Listings were strange: 
  twice the listing title, separated by a space. Fixed.
  
- There is now also a command to view the existing records for 
  each Listing type. 
  :menuselection:`Explorer --> Listings`.
  
- Fixed the "Irritating scrollbar" bug:
  The welcome page gets a vertical scrollbar when it has more than 
  a screenful of information to display.
  That's normal, but it was irritating 
  that this scrollbar "didn't disappear" when another window is opened. 
  And even worse, it disturbed the layout of some windows (e.g. detail of a course) 
  because their layout manager isn't obviously aware of that scrollbar when creating 
  the canvas, and thus each window now also has a horizontal scrollbar.
  
  - `html_lines` inserts the `welcome.html` now only if ``not on_ready``.
  - Quick Links now also use a `http:` instead of a `javascript:` link.
  

Check-in 20111112c


Sunday
------

Started a new experimental application for internal use.

Added new configuration setting :attr:`languages <lino.Lino.languages>`.

Some optimizations in modlib structure. 
e.g. PersonMixin replaced by Person.
Note that in :mod:`lino.modlib.contacts.models`, Person and Company are 
abstract and are not automatically subclasses of Contact.
There may be applications who want "persons" that are not a Contact.

Added new module :mod:`lino.modlib.tickets`. 