20111114
========

Choice Lists
------------

Choice Lists had a design flaw: they used `babel.BabelText` 
instances to store the items, but it is better to use simple 
translatable strings (`gettext_lazy`) and Django's translation 
machine.
All currently existing choicelists have been converted:

- :class:`lino.apps.dsbe.models.CefLevel`
- :class:`lino.modlib.mails.utils.DurationUnit`
- :class:`lino.modlib.cal.utils.DurationUnit`
- :class:`lino.utils.choicelists.HowWell`
- :class:`lino.utils.choicelists.HowMuch`

Data fields `sex` renamed to `gender`
-------------------------------------

The new choicelist
:class:`lino.utils.choicelists.Gender`
is now being used 
to create the `gender` fields in 
:class:`lino.apps.dsbe.models.Person`
and :class:`lino.apps.dsbe.models.PersonSearch`.
Unit test cases and fixtures have been adapted.
One advantage is that Lino no longer accepts 
a simple 'M' as valid value on a gender field. 
User code must import the `Gender` choicelist 
and use the "constants" defined there.

Calendar statuses now configurable
----------------------------------

The following new models replace the formerly 
used choice list of same name. 
It became clear from recent user 
interviews that these lists cannot be hard-coded.

- :class:`lino.modlib.cal.models.TaskStatus`
- :class:`lino.modlib.cal.models.EventStatus`
- :class:`lino.modlib.cal.models.AccessClass`
- :class:`lino.modlib.cal.models.Priority`

The previously hard-coded values are now in a 
new fixture :mod:`lino.modlib.cal.fixtures.std`

Note: 
What is the plural of "Status"? 
Answer: "Statuses". At least in English.
But in German the official plural form is "Status", 
written like the singular form and pronounced with a long "u".
That's why I'm going to translate "Status" by "Zustand" 
which has a better plural form.


BCSS connection
---------------

.. currentmodule:: lino.modlib.bcss.models

Worked on :mod:`lino.modlib.bcss.models` to explore the BCSS functionality:

There were two problems in 
:meth:`IdentifyPersonRequest.build_service`: 

- a simple bug: 
  if national_id known, it filled both LastName and FirstName with the person's `last_name`.

- if national_id and birth_date empty, 
  the reply said
  "An error occurred during the parsing of the request body. Please check your message format." 
  and 
  "Uncompleted content model. expecting: <BirthDate>,<MiddleName>".
  Seems that in the MiddleName element in PhoneticSearch must be present even if it is empty.
  These are probably the kind of things which :term:`generateDS` would detect already when 
  generating the XML.

More changes:

- enhanced :meth:`RequestStatus.execute_request` 
- new field :attr:`BCSSRequest.status`
- new choicelist  :class:`RequestStatus`
- new utility functions 
  :func:`lino.utils.bcss.reply2lines`
  and :func:`lino.utils.bcss.xml2reply`
  
Check-in 20111114b at 23:41, time to go to bed. TODO: 

http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/contacts/Persons/117?query=&an=detail&tab=11
  - non-editable fields are not shown in a grid
  - console message about disabled_actions doesn't appear
  
  