20111121
========

Lino and OpenERP
----------------

Surfed about ticket :doc:`/tickets/51`.

`A forum post in December 2010 <http://www.openerp.com/forum/topic21423.html>`_
Hmm, the forum doesn't seem to be the right place to start learning 
OpenObject.


`OpenERP tools & tips <http://boran.com/book/export/html/25>`_
This guy must be an interesting person.
While he still wrote "the community is currently dominated by 
OpenERP partners", 
I continue to hope that they are working on this problem.
For example the following document obviously is quite recent:
http://doc.openerp.com/v6.0/contribute/01_introduction.html

Aha, there is at least one fork of OpenERP:
http://www.tryton.org


`GettingStartedWithOpenERPDev
<http://code.google.com/p/magento-openerp-smile-synchro/wiki/GettingStartedWithOpenERPDev>`_
Interesting thoughts.
Seems that I should start to get familiar with Eclipse and 
http://pydev.org/



Documentation cleanup
---------------------

- Converted Lino's repository to use Mercurial's
  `eol extension <http://mercurial.selenic.com/wiki/EolExtension>`_
  Changeset `d748776b4a8e <http://code.google.com/p/lino/source/detail?r=d748776b4a8e9ac25b86c80b71f238329c24f1a5>`_ is because of that. 
  It touches all files, but just to review their EOL characters.
  
- Added a file `ci.bat` to save some keystrokes when doing a check-in.
  Typing ``ci 1121`` will do::

    hg ci -m http://code.google.com/p/lino/source/browse/docs/blog/2011/1121.rst

- Removed old blog entries and releases from the html build. 
  The `.rst` files remain at their place.


BCSS connection
---------------

More bugs removed::

    File "/var/snapshots/lino/lino/utils/bcss.py", line 524, in reply2lines
      yield "    - Information.FieldName: %s" % reply.ServiceReply.ResultSummary.Detail.Information.FieldName
  AttributeError: 'list' object has no attribute 'Information'

    File "/var/snapshots/lino/lino/modlib/bcss/models.py", line 135, in execute_request
      self.on_bcss_ok(reply)
  TypeError: on_bcss_ok() takes exactly 1 argument (2 given)


    File "/var/snapshots/lino/lino/utils/bcss.py", line 525, in reply2lines
      yield "    - Information.FieldName: %s" % dtl.Information.FieldName
  AttributeError: 'list' object has no attribute 'FieldName'
  
    File "/var/snapshots/lino/lino/utils/bcss.py", line 525, in reply2lines
      yield "    - ReasonCode: %s" % dtl.Detail.ReasonCode
  AttributeError: Object instance has no attribute 'Detail'  
  
  
    File "/var/snapshots/lino/lino/utils/bcss.py", line 526, in reply2lines
      for info in dtl.Information:
  TypeError: iteration over non-sequence  
