20111122
========

Eingabe von Terminen
--------------------

Bug behoben: wenn man in einem Termin in den Feldern `Beginn`, 
`Ende` und/oder `Dauer` änderte, dann funktionierten einige Dinge nicht.
(Fehlermeldung `AttributeError: 'str' object has no attribute 'add_duration'`)
  
Allgemeine Regeln ab jetzt (Feedback erwünscht):
  
  - Obligatorisch ist nur das Beginndatum
  
  - Wenn Beginn und Ende manuell eingegeben wurden, 
    sollte die Dauer ruhig leer bleiben. 
    Wenn eine Dauer angegeben wird, passt Lino automatisch das 
    Ende oder ggf. den Beginn des Termins an. 
    Also eine eventuell zuvor eingegebene Angabe wird überschrieben.



Learning OpenERP
----------------

This section is just a trace of my notes when I was 
trying to get OpenERP running, 
before I understood that OpenERP is not *free* but
just commercial open-source software. 
No need to read on here. 
Just skip to the next section, `Getting started with Tryton`_.

- http://selferp.de : maybe interesting, but uncomplete.

- http://www.openerp.com/forum/post84841.html

The Debian 6.0 (Squeeze) on :term:`jana` provides two packages `openerp-server`
and `openerp-client` (no `openerp-web` yet), but they are a 5.0 server. 
I guess that it will be better to start directly with 6.0...

http://pve.proxmox.com/wiki/Get_Virtual_Appliances#Ubuntu_Natty_Standard

Does Ubuntu 11.10 also provides only a 5.0 server? 
To verify this, I do a dist-upgrade on :term:`rose`::

  luc@rose:~$ sudo aptitude dist-upgrade
  [sudo] password for luc:
  The following NEW packages will be installed:
    linux-headers-3.0.0-13{a} linux-headers-3.0.0-13-generic{a} linux-image-3.0.0-13-generic
  The following packages will be REMOVED:
    linux-headers-3.0.0-12{u} linux-headers-3.0.0-12-generic{u}
  The following packages will be upgraded:
    appmenu-qt banshee banshee-extension-soundmenu banshee-extension-ubuntuonemusicstore brltty brltty-x11 compiz
    compiz-core compiz-gnome compiz-plugins compiz-plugins-default cups cups-bsd cups-client cups-common cups-ppdc
    firefox firefox-branding firefox-globalmenu firefox-gnome-support firefox-locale-en ghostscript ghostscript-cups
    ghostscript-x gnome-control-center gnome-control-center-data gnome-desktop3-data gwibber gwibber-service
    gwibber-service-facebook gwibber-service-identica gwibber-service-twitter libbrlapi0.5 libcups2 libcupscgi1
    libcupsdriver1 libcupsimage2 libcupsmime1 libcupsppdc1 libdecoration0 libgnome-control-center1
    libgnome-desktop-3-2 libgs9 libgs9-common libgwibber-gtk2 libgwibber2 libnautilus-extension1 libnotify0.4-cil
    libreoffice-base-core libreoffice-calc libreoffice-common libreoffice-core libreoffice-draw
    libreoffice-emailmerge libreoffice-gnome libreoffice-gtk libreoffice-help-en-gb libreoffice-help-en-us
    libreoffice-impress libreoffice-l10n-common libreoffice-l10n-en-gb libreoffice-l10n-en-za libreoffice-math
    libreoffice-style-human libreoffice-writer linux-generic linux-headers-generic linux-image-generic linux-libc-dev
    nautilus nautilus-data onboard python-brlapi python-uno seahorse software-center ttf-opensymbol ubufox uno-libs3
    ure xul-ext-ubufox
  81 packages upgraded, 3 newly installed, 2 to remove and 0 not upgraded.
  Need to get 165 MB of archives. After unpacking 117 MB will be used.
  Do you want to continue? [Y/n/?]

While this is downloading, another idea is to use the development version on :term:`jana`::

  $ sudo aptitude install bzr
  $ bzr branch lp:openobject-server
  You have not informed bzr of your Launchpad ID, and you must do this to
  write to Launchpad or access private data.  See "bzr help launchpad-login".
  
But oops::

  bzr: ERROR: No such file: 'http://bazaar.launchpad.net/~openerp/openobject-server/trunk/.bzr/repository/pack-names'
  
Maybe a timeout since `rose` is downloading using the same 1Mbps connection.

Anyway, I'd maybe rather get one of the stable source tarballs::

  wget http://www.openerp.com/download/stable/source/openerp-server-6.0.3.tar.gz
  wget http://www.openerp.com/download/stable/source/openerp-web-6.0.3.tar.gz
  
  
Getting started with Tryton
---------------------------

Useful instructions are on 
http://code.google.com/p/tryton/wiki/InstallationOnDebian

:: 

  $ sudo su - postgres -c "createuser --createdb --no-createrole --no-superuser --pwprompt tryton"
  $ sudo nano /etc/trytond.conf

How to find out which version is installed?

::

  $ aptitude show tryton-server
  Package: tryton-server
  New: yes
  State: installed
  Automatically installed: yes
  Version: 1.6.1-2
  Priority: optional
  Section: python
  Maintainer: Debian Tryton Maintainers <tryton@lists.debian-maintainers.org>
  Uncompressed Size: 2,355 k
  Depends: python (>= 2.5), python-support (>= 0.90.0), adduser, python-dateutil, python-genshi, python-lxml,
           python-psycopg2, python-relatorio, python-simplejson, python-pkg-resources
  Recommends: logrotate, postgresql, postgresql-client, python-openoffice, python-openssl, python-pydot, python-tz,
              python-webdav, openoffice.org-core, openoffice.org-draw, openoffice.org-writer
  Suggests: tryton-client | tryton-neso, python-psyco, python-sphinx
  Description: Tryton Application Platform (Server)
   Tryton is a high-level general purpose application platform written in Python and using PostgreSQL as database engine.
   It is the core base of a complete business solution.

   This package contains the server.
  Homepage: http://www.tryton.org/


Downloaded Windows client version 1.6.4 and played with it.

