0111123
========

The owner of an Event or a Task
-------------------------------

Users can now see who's the owner of an automatic 
calendar Event or Task, and they can jump to that 
owner by simply clicking on it.

Automatic Calendar components 
are "owned" (or "governed" or "controlled" by the object) 
which caused their creation:
If the owner gets modified, it may decide to delete or 
modify all its automatic tasks or events.
That's why some fields are read-only on an automatic task.

For Lino, a calendar component is automatic when 
its `owner` field is non-empty.

The `owner` field  is a `GenericForeignKey`, defined 
in :class:`lino.mixins.Owned`.

And GFK fields weren't well rendered yet.

Now they are rendered as a read-only clickable text that 
will bring the user to the owner.

Check-in.

The `verbose_name` of a GFK
---------------------------

One problem remained in the above changes: there was no way to 
specify a label (or `verbose_name`) for the GFK itself (that is, 
the combination of both fields). 
Here is the relevant code from :class:`lino.mixins.Owned`::

  from django.contrib.contenttypes import generic

  class Owned(models.Model):
          
      owner_type = models.ForeignKey(ContentType,editable=True,
          blank=True,null=True,
          verbose_name=_('Owner type'))
      owner_id = fields.GenericForeignKeyIdField(owner_type,
          editable=True,
          blank=True,null=True,
          verbose_name=_('Owner'))
      owner = generic.GenericForeignKey('owner_type', 'owner_id')

It was not possible to specify a `verbose_name`for  field `owner`.
The author of `django.contrib.contenttypes` obviously didn't imagine 
that somebody might want to do that.

That's why we now have :class:`lino.fields.GenericForeignKey` 
which is a thin extension to Django's `GenericForeignKey`.

The new code is::

      owner = fields.GenericForeignKey(
        'owner_type', 'owner_id', verbose_name=_("Owned by"))


Started Calendar Panel
----------------------

I did the first steps for having a "Calendar Panel" command that will use
`Ext.ensible.cal.CalendarPanel` from 
`Extensible <http://ext.ensible.com/deploy/1.0.1/examples/calendar/basic.html>`_.

More concretely: 
there's now a new command :menuselection:`My menu --> Calendar --> Calendar Panel`
which displays a calendar.
New :attr:`lino.Lino.use_extensible` to make this feature optional.
The calendar is currently still empty. 
I need to configure `eventStore` 
(probably the last challenge for this new feature).

