20120213
========

Nachtrag
--------

- Ein Bug weniger:
  GridPanel.set_status() speichert jetzt die aktuelle Seite der PagingToolbar.
  
- Ein weiterer Bug weniger, 
  der schon in der 1.3.8 drin war und den ich jetzt erst entdeckt habe: 
  Man konnte im Reiter "Kompetenzen" einer Person nichts eingeben 
  (alle Auswahllisten waren leer).
  Das lag daran, dass 
  :meth:`lino.utils.choosers.Chooser.get_request_choices`
  die :attr:`known values <lino.core.actors.Actor.known_values>` ignorierte.
  
Diese beiden Bugfixes sind nachträglich noch in der :doc:`/releases/1.3.9` 
mit drin.

Grids having the correct number of rows
---------------------------------------

There was still a bug in 1.3.9:

#.  Wenn man z.B. im Detail eines Benutzers auf den
    Aktenreiter "Kalender" klickt, dann funktioniert beim ersten Mal
    calculatePageSize() nicht korrekt. Er zeigt nur 5 Zeilen an, auch wenn 
    es deren mehr gibt. Erst wenn man Refresh klickt, wird die 
    korrekte Zeilenanzahl geladen.
    
The general question for this problem is:
**How can I automatically set the pageSize of a PagingToolbar
so that it takes as many rows as fit into the GridPanel?**

I did not find a correct answer using Google, 
although it seems to be a common problem. For example:

- final resize event in gridpanel
  http://www.sencha.com/forum/showthread.php?106609-final-resize-event-in-gridpanel
- http://www.sencha.com/forum/showthread.php?82647
- http://www.sencha.com/forum/archive/index.php/t-37231.html

I solved it now by capturing a combination of the `resize` and `viewready` events:
  
  initComponent : function() {
    ...
    this.on('resize', function(){  this.refresh(); },this);
    this.on('viewready', function(){ this.view_is_ready = true; this.refresh(); },this);
    }
  
  refresh : function() { 
    ...
    if (! this.view_is_ready) return;
    ...
    this.store.load(options);
  },
  
  

Thanks also to http://www.sencha.com/learn/grid-faq
who collected and published Aaron Conran's
simple captureEvents utility which helped my to discover 
the `viewready` event::

  function captureEvents(observable) {
      Ext.util.Observable.capture(
          observable,
          function(eventName) {
              console.info(eventName);
          },
          this
      );		
  }
 
CSS Tooltips
------------

Tried to integrate `Alexander Dawson's CSS tooltips
<http://sixrevisions.com/css/css-only-tooltips/>`_
into Lino. 
Problem seems to be that ExtJS does some trickery with 
CSS which partly overrides Dawson's definitions.
So I didn't yet manage to get them work when defined on 
field labels in an ExtJS form.

