20120221
========

Got Jana having the Lino version configured per project.
Worked on :doc:`/admin/install_debian`.

SiteConfigs didn't have `hide_top_toolbar=True`.
Title of a Detail Window on a table with `hide_top_toolbar=True` 
no longer includes the table's title.
Same for New and Delete buttons.

Tried to put together SiteConfigs and About, 
but understood that they are different.
About should never show a "save" button...

JobsOverview had some bugs:

- there was no refresh button
- didn't correctly check for parameter values.

And another bug:
quicklink "Detail" muss heißen "Detail Personen".
Das kam, weil ShowDetail ja jetzt eine RowAction ist.

Oops, there were meanwhile 88 downloads of the 1.4.0 
tarball on :term:`PyPI`, so I should rather not touch these 
files and create a new version instead:
:doc:`/releases/1.4.1`.

But a remark to those who downloaded Lino recently: 
give us some feedback: 
Why did you download it? 
What did you expect? 

ˇThe first tutorial, :doc:`/tutorials/t1`, had become very 
obsolete. Worked a bit to get it running again. 
But this tutorial needs still more thinking...


Dann habe ich noch was in der lino.css hinzugefügt::

  .ext-gecko .x-window-body .x-form-item {
          overflow: hidden;
  }

Das bewirkt, dass Labels einfach abgeschnitten werden, 
wenn sie nicht an ihren Platz passen. Bisher zeigte er 
in solchen Fällen zusätzliche Scrollbars pro Feld mit 
überbreitem Label.

Und noch was Subtiles: wenn man auf "Startseite" klickt, 
macht er jetzt nicht mehr einfach ein Reload der Seite, 
sondern er schließt lediglich alle Fenster.
Der Unterschied ist, dass es deutlich schneller geht, 
und die bereits gerenderten Fenster gerendert bleiben.
Wenn man allerdings schon auf der Startseite ist und 
dann nochmal "Startseite" klickt, *dann* lädt er die 
Seite neu.
Neue Funktion `Lino.close_all_windows()`.
