20120505
========

Worked on :doc:`/tickets/63`.

Renamed :mod:`lino.modlib.families` to :mod:`lino.modlib.households`
because a "Household" is more general than a "Family". 
It has no `father` and `mother`, just a list of members.
Added model :mod:`lino.modlib.households.models.Type`.
Household types might be "Married couple", "Family", "Cohabitation", "Ménage de fait",...
Updated demo fixtures for housholds and :mod:`lino.modlib.debts`.

New class method `add_detail_tab` used for BudgetsByPartner.
It's somewhat a pity to use a full tab for displaying a single grid that will usually not contain more than a few records...
Easiest solution was to have a separate tab "Debts Mediation" on each Partner Detail. 

Vorlage für Ausdruck ist vorangekommen.

Todo:

- Hide the "Debts Mediation" tab (BudgetsByPartner) for Users without `is_debts`. 

- SummaryTable für Schulden. Diese werden nicht gruppiert, aber wohl in die Kolonne 
  ihres Akteurs eingetragen und insgesamt nach Datum o.ä. sortiert. 
  
- Vorlage für Ausdruck muss noch fertig angepasst werden
  
- Kolonne "Total" ist noch nicht rechtsbündig, weil es ein VirtualField ist.
  Eventuell einfach ein neues Attribut `StoreField.summable` und den 
  cell_style daran aufhängen.
  
- dynamic column headers: zumindest beim Ausdruck 
  sollte nicht "Betrag 1" da stehen, sondern der `header` des Actors.

- Eingabe in der Grid ist umständlich:

  - handleKeyDown optimieren
  - nicht nach jeder Zelle ein refresh machen
  
- Jährliche Beträge

- Debt.status : "Kredit", "Schuld", "Gerichtsvollzieher"

- Debt.rate (Monatsrate)

- Entries are printed by Group, but displayed on screen by type...

