20120507
========

Worked on :doc:`/tickets/63`
----------------------------

When configuring :class:`debts.Items`, it was too simplistic to just specify 
whether an Item is "optional" or not. 
That's why we now have two fields `required_for_person` and `required_for_household`.
For example an Item "Salary" is required for Persons, but not for Households,
while an Item "Müllsteuer" is required for Households and not for Persons.

The default value for :modmeth:`_lino_preferred_width` has always been 10, 
but that's usually too small. Increased it to 20.

Two more todo's done:

- Kolonne "Total" ist noch nicht rechtsbündig, weil es ein VirtualField ist.
  Eventuell einfach ein neues Attribut `StoreField.summable` und den 
  cell_style daran aufhängen.
  
- dynamic column headers: zumindest beim Ausdruck 
  sollte nicht "Betrag 1" da stehen, sondern der `header` des Actors.


Remains to do:

- Hide the "Debts Mediation" tab (BudgetsByPartner) for Users without `is_debts`. 

- SummaryTable für Schulden. Diese werden nicht gruppiert, aber wohl in die Kolonne 
  ihres Akteurs eingetragen und insgesamt nach Datum o.ä. sortiert. 
  
- Vorlage für Ausdruck muss noch fertig angepasst werden
  
- Eingabe in der Grid ist umständlich:

  - handleKeyDown optimieren
  - nicht nach jeder Zelle ein refresh machen
  
- Jährliche Beträge

- Debt.status : "Kredit", "Schuld", "Gerichtsvollzieher"

- Debt.rate (Monatsrate)

- Entries are printed by Group, but displayed on screen by type...


CBSS connection
---------------

In :mod:`lino.utils.xmlgen.cbss`, even SSDN requests are currently broken
because ElementTree seems somewhat unwilling to treat with CDATA and ANY.
But since :term:`suds` was so great when implementing the communication 
with "new style services", I'll try to do also SSDN services using suds. 
Here is a first success::

  from suds.client import Client
  url = 'https://bcssksz-services-test.smals.be/connectors/webservice/KSZBCSSWebServiceConnectorPort?WSDL'
  client = Client(url)
  print client

Output::

  Service ( KSZBCSSWebService ) tns="http://ksz-bcss.fgov.be/connectors/WebServiceConnector"
     Prefixes (1)
        ns0 = "http://ksz-bcss.fgov.be/connectors/WebServiceConnector"
     Ports (1):
        (KSZBCSSWebServiceConnectorPort)
           Methods (1):
              sendXML(xs:string xmlString, )
           Types (1):
              NewComplexType
              

That's as expected. 
Now I must integrate that into the existing code...

