20120510
========

Lino on a shared host
---------------------

Got Lino running in the shell of a shared host. 

The `welcome.html` template isn't used anymore but was still parsed. Fixed.

In `django.core.management.__init__.py` there's a function `get_commands()`::

    global _commands
    if _commands is None:
        _commands = dict([(name, 'django.core') for name in find_commands(__path__[0])])

        # Find the installed apps
        try:
            from django.conf import settings
            apps = settings.INSTALLED_APPS
        except (AttributeError, EnvironmentError, ImportError):
            raise # <<-- add this to correct Django's behaviour
            apps = []


Django features a very strange behaviour of silently ignoring 
any `(AttributeError, EnvironmentError, ImportError)` 
that occurs during initialization.
I ignore why they did this, but it has at least one side effect: 
if the logger config (the function defined in :setting:`LOGGING`) 
tries and fails to create a logfile, then it raises an `IOError` 
(a subclass of EnvironmentError).
And you get no error message at all.
`manage.py validate` reports "0 errors", 
but nothing works because not all :setting:`INSTALLED_APPS` 
have been loaded.
Changed :func:`lino.utils.log.configure` 
so that in case of an IOError when trying to open the log file 
it just logs an exception to the other handlers.

TODO: 

- https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/howto/deployment/fastcgi/?from=olddocs
- Documentation needs update :doc:`/admin/install_debian`


Schuldnerberatung
-----------------

Continued with :doc:`/tickets/63`.
Moved lino.modlib.debts to lino.obsolete.debts.
Moved lino.sandbox.debts to lino.modlib.debts.

.. currentmodule: lino.modlib.debts.models

New table :class:`DebtsSummaryByBudget`.

Done:

- SummaryTable für Schulden. Diese werden nicht gruppiert, aber wohl in die Kolonne 
  ihres Akteurs eingetragen und insgesamt nach Datum o.ä. sortiert. 
  

Remains to do:

- Hide the "Debts Mediation" tab (BudgetsByPartner) for Users without `is_debts`. 

- How to render zero values on screen and paper

- Print general summary of a budget:

  - Monatliche Einkünfte
  - Monatliche Ausgaben inkl Raten der laufenden Kredite
  - Monatliche Reserve Steuern
  - Monatliche Reserve Versicherungen
  - Restbetrag für Kredite und Zahlungsrückstände:
  - Total Kredite / Schulden / Gerichtsvollzieher / Zahlungsrückstände
  
  
- Eingabe in der Grid ist umständlich:

  - handleKeyDown optimieren
  - nicht nach jeder Zelle ein refresh machen
  
- Jährliche Beträge


To discuss when first prototype is available:

- Debt.status : "Kredit", "Schuld", "Gerichtsvollzieher"?

- Debt.rate (Monatsrate)?

- Entries are printed by Group, but displayed on screen by type...
