20120514
========

Schuldnerberatung
-----------------

Continued with :doc:`/tickets/63`.
Removed field `Entry.name`.

The new field `periods` means: for how many months 
(or any other period of time this budget is designed for) 
the entered amount counts.
Default value is 1. For yearly amounts set it to 12 
(when the budget is conceived with a monthly periodicity).
Currently there is no need to have the periodicity o a 
budget stored somewhere. Currently it is always "monthly".
I just didn't want to choose "months" as internal field 
name.



Lino on Cloud 7
---------------

Worked on http://lino.cld7.com/, the first public (but not yet official) 
Lino demo on a server with normal connection speed.

Fixed a bug in :meth:`lino.utils.auth.RemoteUserMiddleware.process_request`:
"Unknown username %s from request %s"
(When the REMOTE_USER doesn't exist, Lino failed to give a proper error message).

Otto discovered an general bug: a Lino.GridPanel didn't prevent editing 
of disabled fields (this was only done for editing a Detail).
A user can edit their own data, 
except for the fields `is_active`, `is_superuser`, `is_staff` and `is_expert` 
(the last 2 only since today).
`Lino.CheckColumn` manually called an event "validateedit", 
changed this to "beforeedit".


Another problem:
:mod:`lino.modlib.countries.fixtures.ee` caused the following error 
when being used on a MySQL database::

  WARNING Failed to save City(name=u'\xd5ru',country=u'EE').
  Traceback (most recent call last):
    File "/home/linodev/snapshots/Django-1.4/django/core/management/commands/loaddata.py", line 196, in handle
      obj.save(using=using)
    File "/home/linodev/snapshots/lino/lino/utils/dumpy.py", line 287, in save
      self.try_save(*args,**kw)
    File "/home/linodev/snapshots/lino/lino/utils/dumpy.py", line 300, in try_save
      obj.full_clean()
    File "/home/linodev/snapshots/Django-1.4/django/db/models/base.py", line 824, in full_clean
      raise ValidationError(errors)
  ValidationError: {'__all__': [u'City with this Country, Name and Zip code already exists.']}

Copyright on `sihtnumbrid.csv`
------------------------------

Oops: while working on the above problem I discovered that 
"3.1.9 Kliendil on keelatud sihtnumbrite andmebaasi 
publitseerimine ilma POSTI eelneva nõusolekuta."

Don't remember that this was there at the time I 
wrote :mod:`lino.modlib.countries.fixtures.ee`...
but of course, this means that I cannot distribute 
the file `sihtnumbrid.csv` together with Lino,
and therefore we must remove it from the repository.

So the :mod:`lino.modlib.countries.fixtures.ee` 
fixture is broken until we find some other 
solution.

In fact we need a GPL-licensed version of something like 
http://www.addressdoctor.com/. 
IOW we need the :doc:`/topics/gpdn`.

