20120519
========

Until now I had noticed a few times but silently ignored 
the fact that the generated `lino*.js` contains a lot of 
useless class definitions for normal users. 
Only the root user needs them all.
Whether a user needs a table, 
depends on the user's level and on her group memberships.
The new permission system started a solution for this.
It was very flexible but 
would it make quite complex when becoming more granular. 

So here is the next step into this drection:
New attributes 
:attr:`lino.core.actors.Actor.required_user_groups`
and
:attr:`lino.core.actors.Actor.required_user_level`.

Removed the `DebtsUserTable` class which was defined as abstract base 
class for tables that are visible only to Debt Mediation Agents 
(users with a non-empty `debts_level`).

Removed :class:`lino.core.actions.ViewAction` which was used only
by :meth:`lino.ui.extjs3.ext_ui.ExtUI.build_site_cache`.
When generating the site cache, Lino now calls the 
new method :meth:`lino.core.actors.Actor.get_view_permission`.

Examples (to be completed and covered by unit tests):

- `lino.apps.pcsw.models.UsersWithClients` has two names in 
  :attr:`lino.core.actors.Actor.required_user_groups`::
  
    required_user_groups = ['integ','newcomers']
    
  That means: it exists only for members of 
  the `integ` **or** `newcomers` group. One membership is enough.
  A special User level is not required for this table. 
  Even a guest member of one of these groups would see it.

Cache sizes before and after::

  2 055 133 lino_root_de.js
  1 519 957 lino_caroline_de.js
  1 952 055 lino_melanie_de.js
  1 952 055 lino_hubert_de.js
  1 605 010 lino_kerstin_de.js

  2 055 140 lino_root_de.js
  1 404 827 lino_caroline_de.js
  1 853 767 lino_melanie_de.js
  1 741 197 lino_hubert_de.js
  1 402 816 lino_kerstin_de.js
  
  
Migration
---------

Added a little wrapper module :mod:`lino.apps.dsbe.migrate` 
needed when loading dumpy fixtures created before Lino 1.4.4.

  