20120706
========

Configuring User Profiles
-------------------------

There was still a problem with yesterday's version.

A development server on :mod:`lino.apps.presto` answered 
with an `AttributeError` "'UserProfile' object has no attribute 'office_level'" 
to the first request.

To understand the problem, let's make a tour to the internals 
of Lino and Django::

  T:\data\luc\lino_local\presto>python manage.py shell
  Python 2.7.1 (r271:86832, Nov 27 2010, 18:30:46) [MSC v.1500 32 bit (Intel)] on win32
  Type "help", "copyright", "credits" or "license" for more information.
  (InteractiveConsole)
  >>> from lino.modlib.users.models import User
  >>> User.objects.all()
  [<User: Root User>, <User: Luc Saffre>]
  >>> u = User.objects.all()[0]
  >>> print repr(u.profile)
  UserProfile:900(level=blank_item)
  
Indeed, UserProfile has no attribute `office_level`.
That's because the application's 
:meth:`setup_user_profiles <lino.Lino.setup_user_profiles>` 
(which redefines the UserProfiles choicelist 
and adds an `office_level` attribute) has not yet been 
called.

Before loading a user, I must somehow call
:func:`analyze_models <lino.core.kernel.analyze_models>`,
e.g. by doing::

  >>> from django.conf import settings
  >>> settings.LINO.startup()
  INFO Starting Lino...
  INFO Analyzing models...
  INFO Lino Site 'presto@armand' started. Languages: de. 117 actors.
  INFO Using Lino 1.4.4, Django 1.5.dev17937, python-dateutil 1.5, Cheetah 2.4.4, OdfPy ODFPY/0.9.4, docutils 0.7, suds 0.4.1, PyYaml 3.08, Appy 0.8.0 (2011/12/15 22:41), Python 2.7.1.
  
And now the magic has happened::

  >>> u = User.objects.all()[0]
  >>> print repr(u.profile)
  UserProfile:900(level=admin,office=admin)

Lino does this magic (calling `settings.LINO.startup()`) 
when the first web request comes in.
But more precisely,
until now this magic was done in :mod:`lino.extjs3.urls`.
Now it is also done in :mod:`lino.utils.auth` because 
it's there where the User gets loaded.

Again, it's a pity that Django doesn't provide a "startup" signal which is
launched once when all INSTALLED_APPS have been imported. 
A startup signal would make these things less magic,
and save a few ticks per request for not needing to 
check again and again whether it is the first one or not.

Moved `perms` and `menus` from `lino.utils` to `lino.core`. 
This  was an absolutely internal change, but it made me 
discover a bug in :mod:`lino.apps.pcsw`: 

- :mod:`lino.modlib.jobs` still used the old syntax for 
  specifying requirements


Calendar
--------

- New model :class:`lino.modlib.cal.models.Subscription`.
  Users now see other people's Events only if they have subscribed to their calendar.
  
- Calendar Panel now refreshes after editing the detail of an event  

- Day and Week view of calendar Panel now display hours between 8 and 18 
  (and no longer between 0 and 24). This is currently a hard-coded value 
  (`viewStartHour: 8, viewEndHour: 18`) and cannot be configured.
