20120711
========

Yet another series of aweful new features for the :mod:`lino.modlib.cal` module.
It's all about managing team meetings. 

- Added new model 
  :class:`Membership <lino.modlib.cal.models.Membership>`:
  each user defines his own "team", of which he is the leader,
  and for which he can select other users to be members.
  The only effect of this strange kind of team is to tell 
  Lino which other users's events should be shown when using the 
  new `Team View` button of the CalendarPanel.
  
- Added new field `invite_team_members` to the
  :class:`Calendar <lino.modlib.cal.models.Calendar>` model.
  Events in this calendar (if they are public and scheduled) 
  will automatically get the guests list filled with the owner's team members.

- :func:`lino.modlib.cal.models.customize_users` 
  now adds the new fields "Default access class" and "Default calendar"
  to :class:`lino.modlib.users.models.User`.

- The Calendar tab of the User Detail 
  is now more complex (and it is enjoyable to see how easy this job is done 
  in  :func:`site_setup <lino.modlib.cal.models.site_setup>`)::
  
    site.modules.users.Users.add_detail_tab('cal',"""
    cal_left:30 cal.RemindersByUser:60
    """,MODULE_LABEL,required=dict(user_groups='office'))
    
    site.modules.users.Users.add_detail_panel('cal_left',"""
    access_class
    cal.SubscriptionsByUser
    cal.MembershipsByUser
    """)
    
    
  This also revealed a new layout rendering bug. That panel is 
  currently rendered correctly only when not in background 
  (i.e. after clicking the permalink button).
  
- Documented 
  :meth:`add_detail_panel <lino.core.actors.Actor.add_detail_panel>` 
  and :meth:`add_detail_tab <lino.core.actors.Actor.add_detail_tab>`.
  New documentation page :doc:`/topics/layouts`.

- New fixture :mod:`demo_events <lino.modlib.cal.fixtures.demo_events>`
  which generates a more or less useful suite of demo events. 
  (In fact this needs still some more tuning, but we're on our way.)
  
TODO:

- Didn't yet manage to show ni PanelEvents also the events to which I am invited.
- Aforementioned layout bug
  