20120831
========

Lino-Welfare:
Not every Person is a Client.
An important but almost invisible change, 
which is a challenge to the framework and 
mainly to data migration: 
new model 'Client' is now an MTI child of Person.

Optimized error reporting:

- Error message "Part coach1 
  of <class 'lino_welfare.modlib.pcsw.models.Person'> got None"
  replaced by 
  "Invalid RemoteField 
  courses.CourseRequest.person__coach1 (no coach1 in contacts.Person)".
  (:meth:`lino.core.table.Table.get_data_elem`).
  
- Added "in %s" to rrror message 
  "No LayoutElement for VirtualField user on <class 'lino.core.modeltools.UnresolvedField'> in ListLayout on pcsw.UsersWithClients"
  (:func:`lino.ui.extjs3.ext_elems.field2elem`)
  
- `lino.core.modeltools.resolve_field` no longer returns an 
  UnresolvedField but raises an exception
  
- New method `VirtualField.resolve_type` is 
  called during `kernel.analyze_models`.
  
  virtualfield UsersWithClients.user.
  Da funktionierte das resolve_field('pcsw.Client.coach1') nicht mehr.        
  Ich habe nicht genau verstanden warum, aber offenbar findet                 
  models.get_model zu dem Zeitpunkt die pcsw.Client noch nicht.               
  Workaround: resolve_field erst in kernel.analyze_models aufrufen.           
  Das war nicht einfach: habe eine neue Methode resolve_type gemacht.         
  Das alles war aber unnütz, letzten Endes half nur, dass ich das             
  "populate_cache=False" von models.get_model() entfernt habe.                
  Ich weiß nicht mehr, wieso das da war.                                      
  