20120910
========

Cool: I discovered 
`Unit Testing with Jasmine
<http://docs.sencha.com/ext-js/4-0/#!/guide/testing>`_
and wrote my first JavaScript tests.

Worked on the new ProjectContacts and Coaching tables. 
CoachingType, ClientState, demo fixtures and watch_tim.


Added Lino configuration parameters 
:attr:`lino.Lino.use_jasmine`
and
:attr:`lino.Lino.jasmine_root`.

Added :class:`lino.ui.extjs3.views.RunJasmine` view.
To run the tests interactively, I simply point 
my browser to http://127.0.0.1:8000/run-jasmine

Added a ´lino_welfare.demo` site which is used 
to run the Jasmine tests from a command line 
(requires `PhantomJS <http://phantomjs.org>`)::

  T:\hgwork\welfare\lino_welfare\demo>run-jasmine-tests.bat
  'waitFor()' finished in 4379ms.
  7 specs, 1 failure in 4.227s

  Applications-specific
  can run Lino.pcsw.Clients
  can run Lino.lino.About
  can run Lino.pcsw.UsersWithClients
  can run Lino.pcsw.ClientsByCoach1
  can run CalendarPanel

That same site is also used to generate screenshots
(using PhantomJS's `render <http://code.google.com/p/phantomjs/wiki/QuickStart#Rendering>`_  
function)::

  T:\hgwork\welfare\lino_welfare\demo>makedocs.bat
  screenshooter.js has been loaded
  Loading http://127.0.0.1:8000
  try again after 1 second
  try again after 1 second
  done
  Rendering to ../../docs/gen/screenshots/index.png true
  Loading http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/cal/CalendarPanel
  try again after 1 second
  try again after 1 second
  done
  Rendering to ../../docs/gen/screenshots/cal.CalendarPanel.png true
  Loading http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/cal/CalendarPanel?su=8
  try again after 1 second
  done
  Rendering to ../../docs/gen/screenshots/cal.CalendarPanel-su.png true
  (...)
  

TODO: 

- automatically generate the application-specific part of `lino/media/jasmine/specs.js` 
  to `media/cache/js` and have `html_page_lines` include it.
  
- Write documentation pages that use the generated screenshots.

- The whole system currently works only for *read-only* 
  (non-modifying) tests. 

