20121120
========

`Lino-Welfare 1.0.2
<http://welfare.lino-framework.org/de/releases/1.0.2.html>`_
ist seit heute im Versuchsbetrieb, also in der letzten Testphase 
vor dem Release.


Testrunde 1 nach dem Upgrade
----------------------------


- Noch nicht behoben (hat auch Zeit):
  Wenn ich die Hauptseite mit fmt=plain aufrufe, kriege ich::

    201211-20 05:03:43 ERROR base : Internal Server Error: /api/about/About
    Traceback (most recent call last):
      File "/var/snapshots/django/django/core/handlers/base.py", line 111, in get_response
        response = callback(request, *callback_args, **callback_kwargs)
      File "/var/snapshots/django/django/views/generic/base.py", line 48, in view
        return self.dispatch(request, *args, **kwargs)
      File "/var/snapshots/django/django/views/generic/base.py", line 69, in dispatch
        return handler(request, *args, **kwargs)
      File "/usr/local/django/cpas_eupen/using/lino/lino/ui/extjs3/views.py", line 1086, in get
        if next_start < ar.get_total_count():
    AttributeError: 'ActionRequest' object has no attribute 'get_total_count'


- :class:`lino.modlib.cal.models.CalendarPanel` 
  offenbarte sich dem deutschsprachigen 
  Benutzer als "CalendarPanel" statt "Kalender".  
  Habe das `label` von der
  :class:`CalendarAction <lino.modlib.cal.utils.CalendarAction>` 
  ins
  :class:`CalendarPanel <lino.modlib.cal.models.CalendarPanel>` versetzt.
  
- Statt "Autor" eines Termins sagt Lino jetzt "Verantwortlicher". 
  Wenn Alicia nicht da ist und Caroline mit einem Klienten einen Termin 
  f체r Alicia vormerkt, dann steht dort Alicia und nicht Caroline. 
  (Dass Caroline den Termin urspr체nglich erstellt hat, sieht Alicia 
  in der Mitteilung per E-Mail, ansonsten h채lt Lino diese Information 
  f체r belanglos...)
  
  
  
The last function-based view
----------------------------

Lino still caused a DeprecationWarning 
in Django 1.4.2 because :meth:`lino.ui.base.UI.get_patterns`
still added a well-meant entry for ``favicon.ico``.
No longer.

Lino no longer configures any automagic 
`favicon.ico` or `robots.txt`.

A basic `favicon.ico` and `robots.txt`
configuration for Apache looks like::

  Alias /robots.txt /var/www/robots.txt
  Alias /favicon.ico /var/www/favicon.ico


Where `favicon.ico` may or may not be a copy of
:srcref:`/lino/media/favicon.ico`, 
and the file `/var/www/robots.txt` may contain 
for example::

  User-agent: *
  Disallow: /



Noch Bugs
---------

- Setting a column filter on a date column caused a server traceback

    | NameError at /api/isip/MyContracts 
    | global name 'datetime' is not defined
    | /usr/local/django/cpas_eupen/using/lino/lino/core/dbtables.py in add_gridfilters, line 245
    

- Clicking the "Home" button (the one of Lino's main menu) 
  when at least one window was opened caused the viewport's loadmask 
  to show up forever.
  
  :meth:`lino.Lino.get_site_menu` made the Home button as follows::
  
        url = "javascript:Lino.close_all_windows()"
        main.add_url_button(url,label=_("Home"))
        
  Now it is better::
  
    main.add_item('home',_("Home"),javascript="Lino.close_all_windows()")
    
- The message "Failed to delete %(record)s : %(error)s." never reached 
  the user, they saw only "'dict' object has no attribute 'has_header'".    
  
  
Lino and Internet Explorer
--------------------------

Oops, I just discovered that Lino doesn't work in Internet Explorer.
It says::

  Message: Invalid procedure call or argument
  Line: 2362
  Char: 17
  Code: 0
  URI: http://127.0.0.1:8000/media/extjs/ext-all-debug.js
  
To be honest I dicovered this already in February and didn't yet 
find time to investigate it.   
  
The Sencha forum describes a similar problem (but with another reason):
http://www.sencha.com/forum/showthread.php?243915

My `ext-all-debug.js` says at line 2362::

                style == 'opacity' ?
                    this.setOpacity(value) :
                    this.dom.style[chkCache(style)] = value;             
                    
I modified that code in order to localize where IE stumbles::

                var i = chkCache(style);
                try {
                style == 'opacity' ?
                    this.setOpacity(value) :
                    this.dom.style[i] = value;
                } catch (e) {
                    window.alert('failed to this.dom.style['+i+'] = '+value)
                }

To find out that my following code in :class:`HtmlBoxElement 
<lino.ui.extjs3.ext_elems.HtmlBoxElement>` was guilty::

    def get_field_options(self,**kw):
        # hide horizontal scrollbar      
        # for this trick thanks to Vladimir 
        # <http://forums.ext.net/showthread.php?1513-CLOSED-Autoscroll-on-ext-panel>
        kw.update(bodyStyle="overflow-x:hidden !important;")
        
After removing the ``!important``, IE no longer stumbles.
And we'll see whether this "!important" was important...
        

Belgian eID cards and the nationality
-------------------------------------

Question: The 'nationality' field of a Belgian eID card 
contains the nationality in full text and in the language of the card.
Maybe even depending on the person's gender.
So for a Belgian it may contain "BELG", "BELGE", "BELGIER", "BELGIERIN" or "BELGIAN".
Isn't there also a code? 
And is there somewhere an official list of all possible nationalities?

Answer: no, there isn't.

- https://securehomes.esat.kuleuven.be/~decockd/wiki/bin/view.cgi/EidForums/ForumEidCards0097


- https://groups.google.com/d/topic/eid-applet/99P9fR3m-j0/discussion

- http://code.google.com/p/eid-applet/issues/detail?id=42&can=1&q=nationality


Yes, that's typically Belgian... I just couldn't believe it at first glance.

I won't try to change the Belgian administration, I think for me it's
okay to say "Sorry, it's impossible to reliably extract the nationality
from an eid card". A PCSW can always do afterwards a 
:class:`Tx25 <lino_welfare.modlib.cbss.tx25.RetrieveTIGroupsRequest>`_ 
request to the national register to get this and other information.

- Conclusion: 
  remove the 'Country.nationalities' field & Co.
  We'll need a simple dump-load cycle:
  :func:`lino_welfare.modlib.pcsw.migrate.migrate_from_1_0_2` does 
  nothing except to confirm the new version.


Version 1.0.3
-------------

All this is be part of 
`Lino-Welfare 1.0.3
<http://welfare.lino-framework.org/de/releases/1.0.3.html>`_,
which went into production in Eupen today evening.


Last minute changes:

- dumpy.py #~ 20121120 unsorted = set(unsorted)
- ext_elems.py if isinstance(editor,FieldElement) and not isinstance(editor.field,fields.VirtualField):



TODO:

- Setting a column filter for a *normal* date column now works... 
  but Lino also allows setting a filter on a virtual field. 
  Which then causes another traceback
  "FieldError at /api/pcsw/IntegClients / Cannot resolve keyword 'applies_from' into field."
  
  Idea: implement the fields Client.applies_from and applies_until as 
  "summary fields". This is a new concept: :doc:`/topics/summary_fields`
  
  
