20121205
========

Internationalized welcome pages
-------------------------------

I started to write translations for the 
``index`` and ``admin`` pages provided by
:mod:`lino.modlib.pages.dummy`.


Fixed a bug about attribution of the help_text.
MenuItem now has a help_text attribute. 
The help_text displayed for :menuselection:`Site --> About` 
was wrongly "Shows this record in a Detail window",
(coming from ShowDetailAction).

Added more translations.

Result: the anonymous welcome page at 
http://demo4.lino-framework.org/
now works in en, de and fr using the browser's language preferences.


Role inheritance
----------------

I was invited by Alexandru Lemnaru to participate in a survey 
`Framework Study <http://www.frameworkstudy.com/>`_
(A study on Open-Source Framework Usage)
for his thesis research 
for the `University of Lethbridge <http://www.uleth.ca/>`_
Masters of Science in Management (Information Systems) program.

Some of the questions:

- Updating the framework while keeping compatibility with previous instances of the framework was easy.
- Adding new functionality to the framework was easy.
- The framework used small components instead of large ones.
- The framework provided automatic documentation for its functions.
- The framework interfaces were role oriented.
- The framework used role inheritance to pass down information.
- The framework was easily scalable based on application requirements.
- The framework interfaces were separated from its components.
- Debugging the framework was easy.
- The framework used delegation to require specific functions from child components.
- The framework used automatic configuration to help with its configuration.
- The framework rarely failed.
- People who are important to me thought I should use the framework.
- The framework handled failures well if or when they occurred.
- Overall, the framework was easy to use.
- I believed that the framework was mature.
- I found it was easy for me to become skillful at using the framework.
- Coworkers thought I should use the framework.
- People in the online community thought I should use the framework.
- Overall, I believe the framework was useful.
- People in the IT community in my area thought I should use the framework.
- I believe that using the framework increased my effectiveness.
- I believe that using the framework increased my productivity.
- People who influence my behavior thought I should use the framework.
- Learning to use the framework was easy for me.
- Assuming I were to develop the same project, I would still use this framework.
- Assuming I were to develop other applications of this type, I would continue using the framework.
- Assuming I were to develop other applications in the same domain, I would continue using the framework.
- Assuming others were to develop the same project, 
  I would recommend this framework to them.


One question made me dig a bit more: 
**What is "role inheritance"?**
Yes, I had never read about the 
`Role Class Model <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Role_Class_Model>`_
before.
Here is more reading for me:
`Modeling Roles <http://www.jot.fm/issues/issue_2002_09/column2/>`_ 
by Francis G. Mossé
and
`Dealing with Roles
<http://www.martinfowler.com/apsupp/roles.pdf>`_
by Martin Fowler.
I should read these articles before making decisions
about my system of 
UserProfiles, UserLevels and UserGroups
(which already now solves many, 
but not all of the problems described there).


