=========================
Saturday, January 3, 2015
=========================

Most of today went again into Lino's documentation: I updated
:doc:`/tutorials/lets/index` after feedback from :ref:`mma`.

It was already late when I saw Georg Brandl's mail which announced
that the Sphinx developers moved from bitbucket to github.  I revised
the Trove classifiers for :mod:`atelier` :

- added `Framework :: Sphinx :: Extension`
- changed `Development Status` to `5 - Production/Stable`

I saw that they successfully migrated my two open problem reports:

- `1654 <https://github.com/sphinx-doc/sphinx/issues/1654>`_
  ("autosummary should ignore imported members", created
  :blogref:`20141219`, actually a duplicate of `1061
  <https://github.com/sphinx-doc/sphinx/issues/1061>`_)

- `1656 <https://github.com/sphinx-doc/sphinx/issues/1656>`_ ("autodoc
  warns without giving the source file name", created
  :blogref:`20141223`).

I forked and cloned the Sphinx project and noted that this broke the
Lino docs (they produced warnings during build).  Which was normal
since my patch for 1656 had not yet been accepted. Aha, and my patch
for 1654 was not yet applied and the issue not solved (although
Takayuki marked it as closed).  So I re-applied my patches for these
issues (unfortunately I now have them both in a single branch), pushed
them to my fork and submitted a pull request for these two issues.

I then saw the message "The Travis CI build failed" for my pull
request, clicked on `Details
<https://travis-ci.org/sphinx-doc/sphinx/jobs/45791041>`_ and was
impressed: the brave worker job at `travis.org` had silently tested my
pull request in a dozen of different environments and disclosed the
fact that my change would break Sphinx's test suite.

That's called "a hosted continuous integration service". I had been
reading about it earlier, and had thought "nice gimmick to use some
day in the future", but now I felt that I also want it *now* and for
*my own* projects!  Learned how to `get started
<http://docs.travis-ci.com/user/getting-started/>`_.

Added a :file:`.travis.yml` file to :mod:`atelier` and :mod:`lino` and
activated Travis projects `Atelier
<https://travis-ci.org/lsaffre/atelier>`_ and `Lino
<https://travis-ci.org/lsaffre/lino>`_.  Got the Atelier test suite to
pass on Travis.

TODO: Make the Lino test suite also pass. Currently it fails:
https://travis-ci.org/lsaffre/lino/jobs/45810912
