=======================
Friday, January 9, 2015
=======================


Benutzerprofil "Newcomers" übersetzen nach "Erstempfang"
========================================================

The following fixes :ticket:`54`.

The German translation of the label of the user group "newcomers" is
now "Erstempfang" (instead of
"Neuanträge"). 
:mod:`lino_welfare.modlib.newcomers`
now has an :xfile:`__init__.py`.
Moved some documentation of :mod:`lino_welfare.modlib.isip` into the module.


Termin erstellen für Klient ohne Begleitung
===========================================

Working for :ticket:`55`

The :class:`CreateClientVisit
<lino_welfare.modlib.reception.models.CreateClientVisit>` action was
being used only in :class:`reception.Clients
<lino_welfare.modlib.reception.models.Clients>`, now it is injected to
the `pcsw.Client` model (available on every Client table).

It now has a `user_choices` method which currently shows only active
users (non-empty profile). This revealed a bug: defining a chooser on
an action could cause a server-side error message
:message:`AttributeError: 'CreateClientVisit' object has no attribute
'known_values'`.  Added a test to `tests.test_welfare_demo` which
reproduces this error.  Fixed the error by adding `known_values =
None` to :class:`lino.core.utils.Parametrizable`.

I wrote two actions on Client which are supposed to open the calendar
panel, for a user to be selected manually.  When creating an
appointment in that panel, the Client would automatically be set.

One is a dialog action where the agent is selected in a combobox.  But
it seems that this combination (dialog action with JS instead of AJAX
call) is not yet possible.

The other implementation uses a ButtonsTable. It has the advantage
that it works. And in fact I think it is easier to use because you
just click once on the name. Instead of selecting it from a combobox
and then click "Submit".  I am not sure whether this is still true
when there are 30 or 50 users. But we will see. 

I leave the dialog action as well (though doesn't work) because it
helps to imagine how it would look and whether it's worth to make it
possible.

TODO: after creating an appointment, the client is not automatically
added as a Guest to that appointment.  The basic problem is in
:meth:`lino.modlib.cal.models_event.Event.suggest_guests`::

    def suggest_guests(self):
        if self.owner:
            for obj in self.owner.suggest_cal_guests(self):
                yield obj

It's not enough to ask only the owner. Manually created events don't
have an owner, but in :ref:`welfare` we have `EventType.invite_client`
which means that the `Event.project` (which always is a Client in
:ref:`welfare`) should be suggested as Guest.
