==========================
Saturday, January 10, 2015
==========================

Termin erstellen für Klient ohne Begleitung
===========================================

Working for :ticket:`55`

Yesterday I noticed that after creating an appointment, the client is
not automatically added as a Guest to that appointment.

The basic problem was in
:meth:`lino.modlib.cal.models_event.Event.suggest_guests`::

    def suggest_guests(self):
        if self.owner:
            for obj in self.owner.suggest_cal_guests(self):
                yield obj

It's not enough to ask only the owner. Manually created events don't
have an owner. But in :ref:`welfare`, even for manually created events
we have `EventType.invite_client` which means that the `Event.project`
(which always is a Client in :ref:`welfare`) should be suggested as
Guest.

A second problem was that Lino did not "automatically click the
lightning button" on a newly created event. So I added an
`after_ui_created` method to get this. Similarily to what we had
already for Household.

This causes the number of `cal.Guest` in the demo databases to
increase because all isip.Contract and job.Contact now also get their
Client as a Guest. The total number of guests in
:mod:`lino_welfare.projects.docs` increases from 616 to 1042.  Which
needed two changes in Welfare's test suite:

- `lino_welfare/projects/docs/tests/test_isip.py`
- `docs/tested/general.rst`


I moved to documentation in :mod:`ml.cal` back to the source code. See
:mod:`lino.modlib.cal`.

Note: I also tried to convert :mod:`lino.modlib.cal.models` into a
package, but this caused "the hell to break loose", as Andrew Cooke
explained already 2009 in a post titled `Using a Directory (Package)
for Django's Model <http://www.acooke.org/cute/UsingaDire0.html>`_.


