===========================
Wednesday, January 14, 2015
===========================

The modular menu system
========================

I finally did a change which has been waiting a long time.  I hadn't
done it if I had I known how much work it would be. What a chance that
I didn't know!

It have been waiting for so long because it is a backwards
incompatible API change which caused quite much code changes.
Fortunately AFAIK only in applications maintained by myself. 

I had to do it now because :ref:`mma` is soon going to learn about
:doc:`/dev/menu`, and it would have been a shame to do this on the
system as is was until now.  And anyway it is better to do it now than
when other developers have started to use it.

API changes:

Instead of writing in your :xfile:`models.py`::

    def setup_FOO_menu(site, ui, profile, m):
        m = m.add_menu('pcsw', _("PCSW"))
        m.add_action('pcsw.MyCoachings')

We now must write in the app's :xfile:`__init__.py`::

    def setup_FOO_menu(self, site, profile, m):
        m = m.add_menu(self.app_label, self.verbose_name)
        m.add_action('pcsw.MyCoachings')

And :meth:`Site.setup_menu <lino.core.site.Site.setup_menu>` has a
new signature.  

Before::

    def setup_menu(self, profile, main):

After::

    def setup_menu(self, ui, profile, main):


Neuanträge
==========

The new table 
:class:`AgentsByClient <lino_welfare.modlib.reception.models.AgentsByClient>` 
in
:mod:`lino_welfare.modlib.reception.models` solves :ticket:`60`.

:class:`CoachingsByClient
<lino_welfare.modlib.reception.models.CoachingsByClient>` is
still there for :ref:`chat` but I gues that they will also want
it.



global name 'navinfo' is not defined
====================================

This error occured when you tried to run
:class:`lino.mixins.sequenced.MoveUp` or
:class:`lino.mixins.sequenced.MoveDown`.  Fixed.

TODO: write a test case which would have discoled this error before
the release.


