========================
Monday, January 19, 2015
========================

Reading eID cards
=================

`lino.modlib.beid` : the "add" version of this action was hidden in the
top toolbar until now. Now it is also visible there, has a vcard with
a "+" as icon, and does what the users want it to do: read eID card
and create a new client from it.


AgentsByClient and the actions API
==================================

Still trying to replace :class:`CoachingsByClient
<lino_welfare.modlib.reception.models.CoachingsByClient>` by its
successor :class:`AgentsByClient
<lino_welfare.modlib.reception.models.AgentsByClient>`.  Names and
look are different, but the idea is the same: show a list of agents
"available" for his client, and for whom the reception clerk can
register either a "prompt consultation" or a scheduled meeting in a
calendar.  We no longer speak about Coachings here because **new**
clients don't have any coaching yet.  For new clients, our table
should show a list of agents who have been marked accordingly.


Added two checkbox fields `newcomer_appointments`
and
`coaching_supervisor`
to :class:`lino_welfare.modlib.users.models.User`.

In :class:`AgentsByClient
<lino_welfare.modlib.reception.models.AgentsByClient>`, we must create
a button to invoke `create_visit` on a Client, passing the agent as a
parameter value.  This turned out to be rather difficult and required
some internal changes

These changes cause a certain risk of having introduced bugs at the
Javascript level (which is not yet covered by our test suite).

In `Lino.ActionFormPanel.on_ok` (in :xfile:`linoweb.js`), I slightly
changed the algorithm for computing the URL of the AJAX call.

An action request (:class:`lino.core.requests.ActionRequest`) now
analyzes the `param_values` and `action_param_values` during `setup`,
no longer during `__init__`. 


The region field
================

Fixed a bug which we discovered with Mahmoud:
:mod:`lino_cosi.projects.ylle` did not have a `region` field. 

This is controlled by the :attr:`hide_region
<lino.modlib.contacts.Plugin.hide_region>` option of
:mod:`lino.modlib.contacts`.

The bug was in the :meth:`setup_plugins
<lino_cosi.projects.ylle.settings.Site.setup_plugins>` method.

Wrong::

    def setup_plugins(self):
        self.plugins.contacts.configure(hide_region=False)
        ...
        super(Site, self).setup_plugins()

Correct::

    def setup_plugins(self):
        super(Site, self).setup_plugins()
        self.plugins.contacts.configure(hide_region=False)
        ...


More documentation optimization
===============================

I converted the documentation of :ref:`cosi` to use `autosummary`
instead of `sphinx-apigen`.

Removed the :command:`fab api` command.

In :mod:`atelier.sphinxconf.base`, changed the sentence::

  (This module's source code is available at `<%s>`__.)

into::

  (This module's source code is available `here <%s>`__.)


