===========================
Wednesday, January 21, 2015
===========================


Upload shortcuts
================

Worked on :ticket:`47`.  Another new feature: Lino now has the concept
of :class:`upload shortcuts
<lino.modlib.uploads.choicelists.Shortcuts>`.  These are technically
like :class:`excerpt shortcuts
<lino.modlib.excerpts.choicelists.Shortcuts>`, which means that much
code was copied, and that configuration is similar. They are the
long-awaited successor for the now deprecated
:meth:`quick_upload_buttons
<lino.modlib.extjs.ext_renderer.ExtRenderer.quick_upload_buttons>` hack.

The first upload shortcut is `id_document`, visible for newcomer
agents in the Coachings panel of a pcsw.Client.

You are busy with ... (:ticket:`61`)
====================================

Meditating about
:meth:`lino.modlib.reception.models.MyBusyVisitors.get_welcome_messages`.
In fact they maybe don't want a list of guests but a list of events.
The difference is rather theoretical for the moment because they will
use it for individual consultations with one guest. But if there's
more than one guest, they want to be able to close the meeting with a
single click (followed by a confirmation).


Lino in Egypt
=============

Mahmoud finished a first draft of `commondata-eg
<https://github.com/ExcellentServ/commondata-eg>`__.  This is his first
full-fledged Python project which might theoretically be useful to
other people.

`commondata-eg` is for Egypt what `commondata.be
<https://github.com/lsaffre/commondata-be>`_ is for Belgium and
`commondata.ee <https://github.com/lsaffre/commondata-ee>`_ for
Estonia: a central place for maintaining public and free common data
in a more semantic form than Wikipedia.  I wanted him to do this in
order to get in touch with my way of doing projects.

If you read the README of `commondata-eg
<https://github.com/ExcellentServ/commondata-eg>`__ until the end, you
can see that this project provides Egyptian place names in both
English and Arabic. For me, this is a visible sign of hope for a
nonviolent relation between Christian and Muslim world in a time after
Charlie hebdo. Lino becomes part of the world's prayer for peace on
earth :-)


Worked on API documentation
===========================

I converted the docstrings of some more modules 
:mod:`lino.modlib.excerpts`,
:mod:`lino.modlib.outbox` and
:mod:`lino.modlib.courses`.

Mahmoud started with Lino Così
==============================

In a one hour voice session I made a presentation of :ref:`cosi` to
Mahmoud. We discovered lots of small and serious problems.  One of
them is :ticket:`67` (Payment suggestion mixes up debit with credit).

