========================
Friday, January 23, 2015
========================

Authentiation
=============

A test case in :ref:`cosi` failed: :ref:`cosi.tested.bel_de`.  A late
side-effect of :ticket:`70`.  This was a bit tricky to solve.  The
problem was about how to decide whether ``django.contrib.sessions``
needs to be installed. This decision cannot be made by
:meth:`get_installed_apps <lino.core.site.Site.get_installed_apps>`
since it depends on :attr:`user_model
<lino.core.site.Site.user_model>`, which in turn depends on the result
of :meth:`get_installed_apps
<lino.core.site.Site.get_installed_apps>`.

Added new method :meth:`SITE.get_auth_method
<lino.core.site.Site.get_auth_method>`, mainly to make things more
clear.

Another thing which I understood: `UserProfiles`, `UserGroups` and
`UserLevels` are defined in :mod:`lino.modlib.users.choicelists` even
though they used by the core also when :mod:`lino.modlib.users` is
*not* installed. Why don't I put them somewhere below
:mod:`lino.core`?  Answer: because they are choicelists, and as such
they need to have an `app_label`.  So I generalized the
:meth:`setup_user_profiles <lino.core.site.Site.setup_user_profiles>`
trick from :ref:`welfare` to all Lino applications.


Uploads
=======

Continued on :ticket:`47` : added a new field `needed` to
:class:`lino_welfare.modlib.uploads.models.Upload`.  Wrote a new demo
fixture :mod:`lino_welfare.modlib.uploads.fixtures.demo`.

Wrote a new tested document about :ref:`welfare.tested.uploads` which
revealed some more subtleties which would have caused problem reports.

:class:`lino_welfare.modlib.uploads.models.Upload` is now a
:class:`lino.mixins.DatePeriod` instead of manually adding two date
:class:fields for the validity period.  Which means that the database
:class:fields `valid_from` and `valid_until` must get migrated to
:class:`start_date` and `end_date`.


Optimizations :

- In :mod:`lino.core.layouts` I renamed `ListLayout` to `ColumnsLayout`. 
- And I added two subclasses of `FormLayout`, called `DetailLayout`
  and `InsertLayout`. Maybe I should even remove `FormLayout` one
  day.

- And I moved the `ad`, `dd` and `rt` modules into a separate package
  :mod:`lino.api`. For backwards compatibility, the old names will still
  work for some time

- TODO: should we rename `column_names` to `columns_layout` or
  `grid_layout`?

