==========================
Thursday, January 29, 2015
==========================

Some tests where not being run
==============================

I noticed that some test cases in :ref:`welfare` were not being run
during the test suite. For example
:mod:`lino_welfare.projects.docs.tests`.  Fixed.

The :envvar:`LINO_CACHE_ROOT` environment variable
==================================================

Lino now makes use of a :envvar:`LINO_CACHE_ROOT` environment
variable.  If this variable is set, then the cached data of demo
databases are no longer written into the file tree of the source code
repository but below the given directory.

On my machnie I have now the following line in my :file:`.bashrc` file::

  export LINO_CACHE_ROOT=/home/luc/tmp/cache

Note that the path should be absolute and without a ``~``.

This feature was needed because we want to get Lino build on CI sites
such as Travis. To enable it for Travis, I modified Lino's
:srcref:`.travis.yml` file, changing::

  script: fab initdb test

into::

  script: export LINO_CACHE_ROOT=$(TRAVIS_BUILD_DIR) ; fab initdb test

(To be honest, I *hope* that this was the reason. Confirmation will
follow.)

This feature caused quite some subtle internal changes. The changes
which might cause problems when upgrading are:

- The Site attributes :attr:`project_dir
  <lino.core.site.Site.project_dir>` and :attr:`project_name
  <lino.core.site.Site.project_name>` have slightly different meanings
  and default values, and they are no longer simple strings but
  `unipath.Path <https://github.com/mikeorr/Unipath>`__ objects.

- New Site attribute :attr:`cache_dir<lino.core.site.Site.cache_dir>`.


New API for defining demo databases
===================================

Users of :mod:`atelier.fablib` must adapt their :xfile:`fabfile.py` of
their projects which define "demo databases" (which we now call
"Django demo projects", see :attr:`atelier.fablib.env.demo_projects`).

Before::

  add_demo_database('lino_welfare.projects.docs.settings.demo')

After::

  add_demo_project('lino_welfare/projects/docs')

(I guess that I am the only one who needed to do this...)



About ``__all__``
=================

I removed the ``__all__`` definitions from all modules.

The first reason is that they caused a problem when Mahmoud tried to
build the docs::

    Warning, treated as error:
    /...lino/docs/api/lino.api.ad.rst:4: WARNING: __all__ should be a list of strings, not [u'Site', u'TestSite', u'Plugin', u'configure_plugin', u'_'] (in module lino.api.ad) -- ignoring __all__
    
Note that this warning is rather a false alert, and thus 
I'd call it a bug in the latest Sphinx version.
    
OTOH I am not a friend of ``__all__``. Anyway it is not
recommended to do ``from xxx import *``. I never recommend to use it
except for some special situations:
    
- :srcref:`lino/ad.py` imports ``*`` from :srcref:`lino/api/ad.py`. This
  module exists only for backwards compatibility.
- Another good reason for ``import *`` is when you extend a
  :class:`lino.core.plugin.Plugin`.


TODO:

- Haushalt erstellen vom Partner aus: funktioniert nicht
- Wenn man bei den Neuanträgen jemanden ablehnt, kommt ein internal
  server error
- Add a TestCase which automatically runs ``python manage.py test`` in
  every demo project.

