==========================
Saturday, January 31, 2015
==========================

Demo data for the Immersion trainings module
============================================

While a first version of the new :mod:`lino_welfare.modlib.trainings`
plugin was easy, the :mod:`demo fixture
<lino_welfare.modlib.trainings.fixtures.demo>` took more time.

The challenge of demo fixtures is that we want to generate fictive
data which (1) looks realistic and (2) is testable.

I started by defining a arbitrarily selected list of clients::

    selected_clients = (131, 129, 141, 146)

And generating a training contract for each of them

Which caused an error message 
:message:`Contract overlaps with ISIP contract #5`
during :manage:`initdb_demo`.

First of all: Lino was better than Mathieu and me together!  The
:meth:`ContractBase.full_clean
<lino_welfare.modlib.isip.mixins.ContractBase.full_clean>` method
"decided" that trainings must not overlap with other contracts. We
hadn't even thought about this. I guess that Lino is right.

But the error message does not (and should not) include the offending
contract because it is intended to be displayed when the user is
modifying a contract. In this situation it would be irritating to
"remind" the user on which contract the problem happens.

While thinking about how to find demo clients who are available for
demo trainings, I added two new choices to :class:`ClientEvents
<lino_welfare.modlib.pcsw.models.ClientEvents>`. Users can now ask to
show only the "available" clients, i.e. those who have no running
contract at all during the given period.

But then I did not even use this new feature because I had the
following idea for a little optimization in :mod:`lino.utils.dpy`: I
extended
:meth:`FakeDeserializedObject.try_save<lino.utils.dpy.FakeDeserializedObject.try_save>`
to include the guilty object into the error message when the error is
a simple ValidationError.  We will see whether this causes problems
somewhere in the future.

I also changed the the `__unicode__` method of
:class:`lino_welfare.modlib.isip.mixins.ContractBase` to support
unsaved contracts.

This change allowed me to use a simple iterative approach: I simply
replacing the problematic selected clients with other random client
numbers and running :manage:`initdb_demo` again, until I had a series
of 4 clients which did not conflict.

Note that for such cases we have an :xfile:`initdb_tmp` file in most
demo projects.

And when my series finally worked in
:mod:`lino_welfare.projects.chatelet`, it still failed in
:mod:`lino_welfare.projects.std` because these demo projects had
different demo dates.  (In :mod:`lino_welfare.projects.eupen` it is
not necessary since thy don't yet use it).  This caused some
reorganization:

- Renamed ``lino_welfare.projects.docs`` to :mod:`lino_welfare.projects.std`
- All three demo projects of :ref:`welfare` now have the same
  :attr:`the_demo_date<lino.core.site.Site.the_demo_date>`.


Miscellaneous
=============

- :mod:`lino_welfare.projects.std.settings` no longer defines the name
  `SETUP_INFO` in its global namespace.

- One page of the Lino documentation tree, :doc:`/eidreader/applets`
  page caused the build to fail on Mahmoud's machine. He had to clone
  the `eidreader <https://github.com/lsaffre/eidreader>`_ project just
  for building Lino's docs, which is a bit surprising ;-)

  TODO: move :mod:`lino.modlib.beid` into the `eidreader` project and
  document all these things there.

