========================
Sunday, February 1, 2015
========================

About the `title` and the `verbose_name` of a `Site`
====================================================

.. currentmodule:: lino.core.site

The docstring for :attr:`Site.title` was wrong, it said "TODO: Stop
using `title`, use :attr:`Site.verbose_name` instead."

In fact these are different things: `title` is the title of the site,
while `verbose_name` is the verbose name of the application.

I changed the default value for `title` from `"Unnamed Lino site"` to
`None`, and for `verbose_name` from "yet another Lino site" to "yet
another Lino application".


Editable tables
===============

Hint for :ticket:`85` : this is another case of a table which must
explicitly set :attr:`editable <lino.core.actors.Actor.editable>` to
True.


Travis CI
=============

I noticed that Travis has been saying "config missing" for several
days now. This was a syntax error in my :file:`.travis.xml`.

And yes, my :envvar:`LINO_CACHE_ROOT` is active and works.  But here
is the next challenge. It says::

  Exception: Oops : cannot use
  /home/travis/build/lsaffre/lino/lino_docs for
  /home/travis/build/lsaffre/lino/lino/projects/docs/settings 
  because it is used for
  /home/travis/virtualenv/python2.7.9/lib/python2.7/site-packages/lino/projects/docs/settings.

What's happening there? It remindes me that the :xfile:`default.db`
has previously been created at different places. As it seemed. But are
they really different? I rather guess that the latter is a symlink to
the former.

So :meth:`Site.setup_cache_directory` must use `Path.resolve()
<https://github.com/mikeorr/Unipath#calculating-paths>`_ when checking
whether they are different.

Note: this was not the explanation. Tilt! Next idea: it is because
:command:`fab initdb` uses the uninstalled Lino version while
:command:`fab test` uses the installed one. TODO: 

- :command:`fab
  initdb` must not simply cd to the given directory, but must construct
  the path using something like `join(dirname(lino.__file__), path)`.

- And while we are there: change (once more) the whole system of
  declaring demo projects by defining them in the main module, not in
  the :xfile:`fabfile.py`.


Recurrent polls
===============

I started to work on a user request by :ref:`welcht`:

- Interviews: il faut que les agents puissent voir, pour chaque
  question, ce que le bénéficiaire a répondu les entrevues
  précédentes.

Started a new document :ref:`welfare.tested.polls` in English with all
the explanations.

:mod:`lino_welfare.modlib.polls.fixtures.jobsearch`

