===========================
Thursday, February 12, 2015
===========================

Ticket :ticket:`93` was trickier than expected. Some of the secondary
changes:

- The permission behaviour is mostly defined in
  :class:`Confirmable <lino_welfare.modlib.aids.mixins.Confirmable>`.
- The :attr:`manager_level_field
  <lino.modlib.users.mixins.UserAuthored.manager_level_field>` of a
  :class:`UserAuthored <lino.modlib.users.mixins.UserAuthored>` can
  now be None.  And :class:`Confirmable
  <lino_welfare.modlib.aids.mixins.Confirmable>` uses this new
  feature.
- :mod:`lino_welfare.modlib.aids.fixtures.demo` now lets some of the
  generated confirmations be confirmed.
- Merged the `get_workflow_buttons` method on `Actor` into the
  :meth:`workflow_buttons` method, and moved this method to `Model`
  :meth:`lino.core.model.Model.workflow_buttons`.

Visible changes

- :class:`ConfirmationsByGranting
  <lino_welfare.modlib.aids.models.ConfirmationsByGranting>` (our
  "pseudo-virtual" table) now also shows the fields `signer`. And the
  grid no longer offers a `workflow_buttons` column which anyway
  didn't work.

- Moved a chapter from :ref:`welfare.tested.pcsw` into a separate
  document :ref:`welfare.tested.dedupe`. This document shows a
  consequence of having :meth:`workflow_buttons
  <lino.core.model.Model.workflow_buttons>` moved from Actor to Model.


Language and recipient of an excerpt
====================================

I noticed and fixed another problem: 

    **Bescheinigungen wurden bisher immer in der Sprache des Klienten
    ausgedruckt. Ab jetzt immer in der Sprache des Empfängers (wenn es
    einen gibt).**
    
Setting the recipient of a confirmation caused this to be printed, but
the excerpt neither stored that recipient nor select the corresponding
language of that recipient.

Added a test case to :ref:`welfare.tested.excerpts` which tests this
new rule.  And :mod:`lino_welfare.fixtures.demo` now distributes
different languages to each partner.

Neue Auszugsart "Aktenblatt"
============================

Fixed :ticket:`98`.

Neues Feld "ID Buchhaltung" pro Klient
======================================

Fixed :ticket:`97` (Neues Feld "ID Buchhaltung" pro Klient).

Aktenkontrollliste
==================

Fixed :ticket:`71` (Plausibilitätstest (Aktenkontrollliste)).

Renamed `ClientsTest` to `StrangeClients` (my personal naming
convention is that a table name should end with the plural for of the
model. Added a new table
:class:`lino_welfare.modlib.pcsw.models.MyStrangeClients`.

Java problems
=============

I released new versions of :ref:`davlink` and :ref:`eidreader`. No
change in the code, but the signature is no longer expired. 

The repositories now contain only my self-signed jars, I removed the
"signed" variants which used to be signed using a GlobalSign code
certificate. An "officialy certified" signature is not necessary for
any known user, they must only set up their clients security policies
correctly.

The signing didn't work out of the box, it caused some optimizations
in :class:`JarBuilder <atelier.jarbuilder.JarBuilder>` which is now in
a separate module. The usage API is slightly changed. Signing with a
timestamp is now optional, and the URL of the TSA can be configured.

Filter parameters of newcomers.NewClients
=========================================

:ticket:`91` (newcomers.NewClients : new parameter & default values)
is for tomorrow. But I added a test case to prepare for it.
