===========================
Thursday, February 19, 2015
===========================

I discovered a layout problem in the insert window of
:class:`aids.IncomeConfirmationsByGranting
<lino_welfare.modlib.aids.models.IncomeConfirmationsByGranting>`: all
form fields except `remark` are hidden.  

The problem is a side effect of the new feature "hidden form fields"
introduced some days ago (:blogref:`20150217`):

- Fields specified as :attr:`hidden_elements
  <lino.core.actor.Actor.hidden_elements>` of an actor used to simply
  have no effect in any :class:`FormLayout
  <lino.core.layouts.FormLayout>`. Now they have: they are included as
  hidden fields, so they can hold data, and submitting the form will
  transmit their data.  The actual change is in
  :meth:`LayoutHandle.create_element
  <lino.core.layouts.LayoutHandle.create_element>`.



Testing screenshots
===================

Before solving the problem itself I thought that this was the occasion
to try `WeasyPrint <http://weasyprint.org>`_:

>>> url = '/api/pcsw/Clients/-99999?an=insert'
>>> res = test_client.get(url, REMOTE_USER='rolf')
>>> res.status_code
200
>>> html = res.content
>>> from weasyprint import HTML, CSS
>>> css = CSS(string='body { font-family: serif !important }')
>>> outfile = 'tmp.png'
>>> HTML(string=html).write_png(outfile, stylesheets=[css])

That would have been a cool thing for generating screenshots and
testing them. But it was of course utopic: the `<body>` of a normal
Lino html page is empty because it uses ExtJS. It works using a
javascript `<script>` tag which defines an `Ext.onReady` handler::

    <script type="text/javascript">
        Ext.onReady(function() {
            ...
            Lino.viewport.render("body");
            Lino.pcsw.Clients.insert.run(null,...)
        }); // end of onReady()"
    </script></head>

No... this shows again that we need `phantomjs
<http://phantomjs.org>`_ if we want to generate screenshots. I once
started this in :mod:`makescreenshots
<lino.management.commands.makescreenshots>`, but as far as I remember
there was a problem with getting them to play fair in a batch process.

Workaround
==========

I commented out the two lines of code to temporarily undo the new
feature, then checked in and pulled in :ref:`welcht`. Now they can
create Clients again. The disadvantage is that they can't edit the
remark of a poll because this is where the new feature was needed.

A tough problem
===============

The problem is a tough one... it deserves a tested document on its own:
:ref:`welfare.tested.20150219`
