======================
Tuesday, March 3, 2015
======================

Lino and Django 1.7
===================

Mahmoud and I started yesterday to work on :ticket:`38` (Convert to
Django 1.7).

When upgrading to Django 1.7, the :command:`fab initdb` fails already
on the first demo database. You can reproduce the current state as
follows::

  $ cd lino/projects/docs
  $ ./initdb_tmp

In the current development version, this causes an exception: 

   Problem installing fixture
   '.../lino/modlib/users/fixtures/demo.py':
   User(username='robin',...,language='en',...) :
   {'language': [u"Value 'en' is not a valid choice."]}


Cannot find first and last names in %r
======================================

This error message was sent as an admin email when a user had
submitted an insert form with a non-parsable doctor name on a
:class:`lino_welfare.modlib.aids.models.RefundConfirmation`.

It was caused by :func:`lino.modlib.contacts.utils.parse_name`.  I
changed the exception type from `Warning` to `ValidationError`.

Another solution might have been to extend
:meth:`lino.core.store.Store.form2obj` so that it also digests
`Warning` exceptions.  I am undecided which one to prefer.  `Warning`
has the advantage of being a built-in exception type while
`ValidationError` is from Django. On the other hand this built-in
`Warning` is not actually meant for being used by code as mine, it is
used by the `warnings` module as a warning category.


Acting as a former colleague?
=============================

Hubert fragte:

    da ich den VSE #645 vor Ablauf (30/09/2016) "beenden" muss, um einen
    neuen Vertrag mit neuem Inhalt/Ziel generieren zu können, müsste ich
    arbeiten "als Nicolas" (Schöpfer dieses Vertrages). Wenn ich das aber
    versuche, kommt folgende Fehlermeldung: Server Error (500) 

Meine Antwort:

    Die momentane Logik ist: Nicolas hat sein Feld Benutzerprofil auf
    leer, dadurch ist er deaktiviert. Deshalb kann man auch nicht "als
    Nicolas" arbeiten. Denn "als jemand arbeiten" bedeutet auch, dessen
    Benutzerprofil zu übernehmen. Dass Lino den Nicolas trotzdem in der
    Auswahlliste "arbeiten als" anzeigt, ist ein Bug.

    Hubert möchte hier ja auch eigentlich gar nicht "als Nicolas"
    arbeiten, sondern lediglich (als Hubert) einen Vertrag ändern, dessen
    Autor Nicolas ist.

    Du könntest Hubert mal kurz zum Dienstleiter ernennen (Profil von 400
    auf 410 ändern), damit er anderer Leute Verträge bearbeiten kann.

    Das Recht, anderer Leute Verträge bearbeiten zu können, kann momentan
    nicht anders erteilt werden als durch so einen Profilwechsel. Macht es
    Sinn, dass wir das feiner regelbar machen? Z.B. durch ein Ankreuzfeld
    "Kann anderer Leute Dokumente bearbeiten" pro Benutzer.


- Lino allowed to create appointments for a user without `profile`
- Lino showed also users without profile in the :menuselection:`Act
  as...` menu of non-manager users.



About prompt consultations and newcomer appointments
====================================================

I recently thought that `newcomer_appointments` and
`newcomer_consultations` are useless because we can test
`newcomer_quota` instead. Nope, I was wrong.

In :mod:`lino_welfare.modlib.reception` we use them as additional
arguments to the :func:`appointable_users
<lino_welfare.modlib.reception.models.appointable_users>` function
because we want to see only

