=======================
Tuesday, March 10, 2015
=======================

Upgrade in Châtelet
===================

The :attr:`show_in_bbar <lino.core.actions.Action.show_in_bbar>`
attribute of :class:`CheckinVisitor
<lino.modlib.reception.models.CheckinVisitor>`, :class:`ReceiveVisitor
<lino.modlib.reception.models.ReceiveVisitor>` and
:class:`CheckoutVisitor
<lino.modlib.reception.models.CheckoutVisitor>` were not yet correct.
I must define them individually on each action, not on
:class:`NotifyingAction <lino.core.actions.NotifyingAction>`.

Checkin and pull in Châtelet.


About migrations
================

Mahmoud and I are working together on :ticket:`38`.  The "startup
signal, apps and plugins" topic seems more or less done, but the other
big topic are migrations.

Until now all our customers are perfectly happy without migrations
because Lino has :doc:`Python fixtures </topics/dpy>`.

But as it seems, in `Django 1.9
<https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.7/internals/deprecation/>`_ the
"legacy method of syncing apps without migrations will be removed, and
migrations will become compulsory for all apps.", so Django will force
us some day to live with them.

The challenge with migrations are dependencies between plugins.
Before reading on, make sure that you have read Django's section about
`Dependencies
<https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.7/topics/migrations/#dependencies>`_.
But this is just the beginning.  Lino adds quite some cool stuff for
doing plugin inheritance.  And of course we unfortunately can't expect
the Django developers to care about this cool stuff.

What is that cool stuff and what problems will it cause for
migrations?

- :doc:`Plugin inheritance </dev/apps>`
- :func:`lino.core.inject.inject_field`



Cannot resolve keyword 'dupable_words' into field
=================================================

The new version in :ref:`chat` had a bug which caused an :ref:`ise`
when trying to (manually) create a new partner.

This came only when :mod:`lino.modlib.dupable_partners` is hidden.

Wrote a test case `test_dupable_hidden` in
:mod:`lino_welfare.projects.chatelet.tests` which would have detected
this bug.

Checkin and pull in Châtelet.


Un(e) Bénéficiaire avec ce NISS existe déjà
===========================================

They got the following error message in Châtelet::

  ValidationError
  {'national_id': [u'Un(e) B\xe9n\xe9ficiaire avec ce NISS existe d\xe9j\xe0.']}

It occurred while reading an eid card.

This message is generated by Django when a *unique* constraint of a
field is violated.

Added some conditions in
:file:`lino_welfare/projects/std/tests/test_beid.py` in order to try
to reproduce it.

Added some optimizations in the :class:`StrangeClients
<lino_welfare.modlib.pcsw.models.StrangeClients>` table:

- new options :attr:`invalid_coaching
  <lino_welfare.modlib.pcsw.models.StrangeClients.invalid_coaching>`
  and :attr:`similar_persons
  <lino_welfare.modlib.pcsw.models.StrangeClients.similar_persons>`
  because we want to be able to ignore these cases.

- :attr:`overlapping_contracts
  <lino_welfare.modlib.pcsw.models.StrangeClients.overlapping_contracts>`
  now defaults to `False` because the default values should be least
  power consuling.

- The default value for :attr:`client_state
  <lino_welfare.modlib.pcsw.models.Clients.client_state>` is now empty
  because we want to see warnings about a wrongly formatted
  `national_id` for non-coached clients.
