======================
Friday, March 20, 2015
======================

I started to work on a number of "minor" problems discovered with Gerd
two days ago.

A new plugin: "Plausibility"
============================

The `StrangeClients` table was definitively too slow in real life.  I
finally did what I had been meditating for some time and wrote a whole
new plugin :mod:`lino.modlib.plausibility`.  I chose the name
"plausible" (in the meaning of "credible", "logical", "consistent",
"tenable").

So Lino now has a generic infrastructure for handling this kind of
problems.  The basic idea is to store the messages in a temporary
table instead of running the checks "live" each time when somebody
requests to see them. 

Users now see in their menu a new command "My plausibility problems",
and I guess that they will be asking "What does Lino know about my
problems?" In German we should maybe rather use "Meine
Aktenkontrollliste" instead of "Meine Plausibilitätsprobleme".

- :class:`lino.modlib.plausibility.models.Problem`
- :class:`lino.modlib.plausibility.models.CheckPlausibility`
- :class:`lino.modlib.plausibility.choicelists.Checker`
- :class:`lino.modlib.plausibility.choicelists.Checkers`
- :manage:`check_plausibility`


Added new utility function :func:`lino.core.utils.gfk2lookup`. This
code was until now in :meth:`AbstractTable.get_filter_kw
<lino.core.tables.AbstractTable.get_filter_kw>`, but moved it to
:mod:`lino.core.utils` because it is of general interest, and
especially now used by :meth:`Checker.update_problems
<lino.modlib.plausibility.choicelists.Checker.update_problems>`.

I wanted a progress bar for :manage:`check_plausibility` and
discovered Kenneth Reitz's `clint
<https://github.com/kennethreitz/clint>`_. Cool!

New tested document :ref:`welfare.tested.plausibility`.

Similar clients
===============

The algorithm for finding similar clients
is not yet good enough. For example if we have two duped clients
"Albert Bruno GONZALES" and "Albert GONZALES", then SimilarPersons for
the first client does not show the other.

New module
:mod:`lino_welfare.modlib.similar_clients`.

Our famous fictive dupe client *Dorothée Demeulenaere-Dobbelstein* no
longer has a `birth_date` and a `national_id`.
