========================
Saturday, March 21, 2015
========================

Added a setting :attr:`responsible_user
<lino.modlib.plausibility.Plugin.responsible_user>` for
:mod:`lino.modlib.plausibility`. Example of local configuration::

    class Site(Site):

        def setup_plugins(self):
            super(Site, self).setup_plugins()
            self.plugins.plausibility.configure(responsible_user='annabell')

Added a new checker
:class:`lino.modlib.countries.models.PlaceChecker`, the first checker
in standard Lino.


Integrate repairable problems into plausibility
===============================================

Cool. Sometimes growing means to *reduce* the number of code
lines. Today is an example.  I integrated the `lino.mixins.repairable`
module into :mod:`lino.modlib.plausibility`.  

Instead of writing a `get_repairable_problems` method, we write
:class:`Checker <lino.modlib.plausibility.choicelists.Checker>`
classes and :meth:`activate
<lino.modlib.plausibility.choicelists.Checker.activate>` them.  And
the :meth:`get_plausibility_problems
<lino.modlib.plausibility.choicelists.Checker.get_plausibility_problems>`
method must yield `(fixable, message)` tuples instead of simple
strings.  And the :class:`Problem
<lino.modlib.plausibility.models.Problem>` model has a new field
:attr:`fixable <lino.modlib.plausibility.models.Problem.fixable>`.


TODO: 

- Why is the `detail_layout` of `Checkers` being ignored?
- icon for check_plausibility
- Messages should be translatable. 
- how to should users be able to fix problems?

- Rename `lino.modlib.plausability` to `lino.modlib.datacheck`? But
  won't that be too similar to Django's `System check framework
  <https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.7/topics/checks/>`_? 

