=======================
Tuesday, March 24, 2015
=======================

Lino Noi -- a ticketing system for the Lino team?
=================================================

Though Trac is maybe the most pleasant ticketing system in the world,
I have a problem with it: I cannot customize it easily. As a result, I
can't refrain from thinking sometimes about writing a Lino application
for managing our tickets. This morning I had another attack and worked
on :mod:`lino_noi` and especially :mod:`lino.modlib.tickets`.

I splitted the "sessions" out of :mod:`lino.modlib.tickets`
into a separate new plugin :mod:`lino.modlib.clockings`.

General new feature: attribute :attr:`simple_parameters
<lino.core.actors.Actor.simple_parameters>`.

Lino accepts invalid value 2009-02-30 for DateField
===================================================

humanlinks.LinksByHuman caused a traceback if one of the children of a
person had such an invalid birth date.  IncompleteDateField now has a
validator to avoid this case.  Added test case
:mod:`lino.projects.min2.tests.test_birth_date`.

The :ref:`welfare` test suite had been broken for some time. Now it
passes again.

Cannot save RichTextField when editing in own window
====================================================

Gerd reported another problem: Cannot save RichTextField when editing
in own window.  Instead of saving, we get a traceback::

    NotImplementedError
    <class 'lino.core.actions.ShowDetailAction'> has no run_from_ui() method

    TRACEBACK:
      File "/home/luc/pythonenvs/py27/local/lib/python2.7/site-packages/django/core/handlers/base.py", line 112, in get_response
        response = wrapped_callback(request, *callback_args, **callback_kwargs)
      File "/home/luc/pythonenvs/py27/local/lib/python2.7/site-packages/django/views/generic/base.py", line 69, in view
        return self.dispatch(request, *args, **kwargs)
      File "/home/luc/pythonenvs/py27/local/lib/python2.7/site-packages/django/views/generic/base.py", line 87, in dispatch
        return handler(request, *args, **kwargs)
      File "/home/luc/hgwork/lino/lino/modlib/extjs/views.py", line 569, in put
        return settings.SITE.kernel.run_action(ar)
      File "/home/luc/hgwork/lino/lino/core/kernel.py", line 555, in run_action
        a.run_from_ui(ar)
      File "/home/luc/hgwork/lino/lino/core/actions.py", line 542, in run_from_ui
        "%s has no run_from_ui() method" % self.__class__)

Confirmed, but not yet resolved.

