======================
Friday, March 27, 2015
======================

Miscellaneous
=============

- Continued on 
  :class:`lino.modlib.addresses.mixins.AddressOwnerChecker` and
  :mod:`lino.projects.min2.tests.test_addresses`.

- Extended new setting :attr:`autorefresh_seconds
  <lino.modlib.extjs.Plugin.autorefresh_seconds>` deactivate completely.
  Added new button "refresh" (i.e. a manual refresh without refreshing
  the browser)

- Both test suites pass

- git pull in Eupen and Chatelet.


Online demos currently broken
=============================

The online demos currently are broken.  It seems that :manage:`initdb`
does *not* yet support InnoDB::

    django.db.utils.OperationalError: (1025, "Error on rename of './ylle/countries_place' to './ylle/#sql2-74af-1e16' (errno: 152)")
    
Or later::

    Exception: 13 pending SQL statements failed:
    DROP TABLE `users_user`; ((1217, 'Cannot delete or update a parent row: a foreign key constraint fails'))
    ALTER TABLE `countries_place` DROP FOREIGN KEY `parent_id_refs_id_998565a6`; ((1025, "Error on rename of './ylle/countries_place' to './ylle/#sql2-6948-25a' (errno: 152)"))
    DROP TABLE `countries_place`; ((1217, 'Cannot delete or update a parent row: a foreign key constraint fails'))
    DROP TABLE `countries_country`; ((1217, 'Cannot delete or update a parent row: a foreign key constraint fails'))
    ALTER TABLE `contacts_partner` DROP FOREIGN KEY `invoice_recipient_id_refs_id_6900f480`; ((1025, "Error on rename of './ylle/contacts_partner' to './ylle/#sql2-6948-25a' (errno: 152)"))
    DROP TABLE `contacts_partner`; ((1217, 'Cannot delete or update a parent row: a foreign key constraint fails'))
    DROP TABLE `accounts_account`; ((1217, 'Cannot delete or update a parent row: a foreign key constraint fails'))
    DROP TABLE `accounts_group`; ((1217, 'Cannot delete or update a parent row: a foreign key constraint fails'))
    DROP TABLE `accounts_chart`; ((1217, 'Cannot delete or update a parent row: a foreign key constraint fails'))
    DROP TABLE `ledger_voucher`; ((1217, 'Cannot delete or update a parent row: a foreign key constraint fails'))
    DROP TABLE `ledger_journal`; ((1217, 'Cannot delete or update a parent row: a foreign key constraint fails'))
    DROP TABLE `vat_paymentterm`; ((1217, 'Cannot delete or update a parent row: a foreign key constraint fails'))
    DROP TABLE `declarations_declaration`; ((1217, 'Cannot delete or update a parent row: a foreign key constraint fails'))


During several hours the above problem was locked because `git pull`
had some problem::

    $ git pull
    error: The requested URL returned error: 403 while accessing https://github.com/lsaffre/commondata.git/info/refs
    fatal: HTTP request failed
    
This problem resolved automatically, so I guess it was somewhere at GitHub.

Phone meeting with Gerd
=======================
    
More cool changes as a result of a phone meeting with Gerd:

- Added another double action button on the Problem model itself. And
  set `edit_cell` to `False`. Users can now select rows in their
  "Aktenkontrollliste" and ask to update and/or repair them
  "globally".

- We discovered a next case which shows that `dupable_clients` needs
  to differentiate between first_name and last_name.  For example:

  - *Jean Nemard* and *Jean-Jacques Nemard* should be reported as
    similar while
  - *Jean-Jacques Nemard* and *Jean-Jacques Vandenberg* clearly should not.

Side effects:

- Renamed `check_plausibility` to :manage:`checkdata`.

  And the `checkdata` fixture must now be specified explicitly in
  :attr:`demo_fixtures <lino.core.site.Site.demo_fixtures>` if you
  want it to run in :manage:`initdb_demo`

- The :func:`lino.core.utils.models_by_base` now has a new parameter
  `toplevel_only` which is used by
  :mod:`lino.modlib.plausibility`. For example the
  :class:`AddressOwnerChecker
  <lino.modlib.addresses.mixins.AddressOwnerChecker>` needs to run
  only on Partner, not also on Person, Company and Household.  The new
  document :doc:`/tested/core_utils` tests this.

- Checkers are now internally named using their full Python name, not
  the model. The `Checker.max_length` of 50 was too small. Increased
  it to 250. This requires a :manage:`dump2py` and a restore.


