#1 : Wrong layout when tab gets activated
=========================================

showcase :srcref:`/extjs-showcases/20101007.html` creates a TabPanel containing two Panels that are identical except for their title.
The active tab is laid out correctly, the other not (the grid seems to get a height of 0).
If you change the `activeTab` parameter from 0 to 1, then the second tab is correct but the first not.

20101006
--------

Posted the problem to the 
`ExtJS Help Forum
<http://www.sencha.com/forum/showthread.php?111749-Layout-works-for-activeTab-but-not-for-other-tabs>`__.

20101011
--------

Strange: there's still no answer to my post after 4 days.
Maybe nobody isn't interested in 3.2.1 bugs anymore 
because `ExtJS 3.3 Release Candidate 
<http://www.sencha.com/forum/announcement.php?f=40&a=15>`__
is available?
So I should rather test what happens with ExtJS 3.3.

GridFilters seems to not work with version 3.3.0rc::

  :8000/media/extjs/ext-all-debug.js:2593 Uncaught TypeError: Object #<an Object> has no method 'num'
  :8000/media/extjs/examples/ux/gridfilters/menu/RangeMenu.js:19  Uncaught TypeError: Cannot read property 'Menu' of undefined
  :8000/media/extjs/examples/ux/gridfilters/menu/ListMenu.js:16   Uncaught TypeError: Cannot read property 'Menu' of undefined
  :8000/media/extjs/examples/ux/gridfilters/GridFilters.js:740    Uncaught TypeError: Object #<an Object> has no method 'preg'
  :8000/media/extjs/examples/ux/gridfilters/filter/NumericFilter.js:31    Uncaught TypeError: Cannot read property 'NumberField' of undefined
  :8000/media/extjs/adapter/ext/ext-base.js:7     Uncaught TypeError: Cannot read property 'prototype' of undefined
  :8000/:1        Uncaught TypeError: undefined is not a function


Added new Lino-specific setting :setting:`USE_GRIDFILTERS` and switched it off.
Result: Version 3.3.0-rc doesn't solve the problem.

Found `Ext FAQ TabPanel <http://www.sencha.com/learn/Ext_FAQ_TabPanel>`__ page and 
tried `layoutOnTabChange: true` and doing a `refresh()` on `tabchange` event. 
Nothing changes.

Posted a `follow-up to my own post
<http://www.sencha.com/forum/showthread.php?111749-Layout-works-for-activeTab-but-not-for-other-tabs&p=523523#post523523>`__.
Giving up for today.
