:state: done
:module: lino_welfare

#106 : Signed Applet Blocked by Security Settings
=================================================

After solving :doc:`82` for Oracle Java 7u42, here is again a similar
problem occuring with Java 7u52.

Problem description
-------------------

Gerd reports this problem. It is reproducible on their system, a local
network with Windows 7 clients.  They all have the same Java RTE
version 1.7u52.

Everything works fine when the :guilabel:`Security Level` in their
:guilabel:`Java Control Panel` is set to :guilabel:`Medium` (which
surprisingly is the lowest level).

But when they set it to :guilabel:`High` (which indeed is the medium
level), they cannot get :ref:`davlink` to work.  They report error
messages like

  Signed Applet Blocked by Security Settings

in the Java Console and accordingly in the Javascript console things like:

  Uncaught Error: Error calling method on NPObject. 


Environment setup
-----------------

Here is how to reproduce this problem yourself.

- Install a development version of Lino Welfare
- Run a development server on the docs demo::

    cd ~/repositories/welfare/lino_welfare/projects/docs
    mkdir media
    python manage.py initdb_demo
    python manage.py runserver

  You must create the :xfile:`media` directory yourself. You can do
  this directly inside your code repository since `git` ignores any
  files below any directory named :xfile:`media`. You must have write
  permission to these files.

- Point your browser to http://127.0.0.1:8000/

- This page uses two applets :ref:`davlink` and :ref:`eidreader`.  You
  should get some kind of security prompts from Java, asking you
  whether you give permission to these applets ("JNLP applications").

- Always watch the Java console in order to see what's happening.


- The Java security mechanisms are obviously very different depending
  on (1) operating system, (2) browser and (3) the version of the Java
  Runtime Environment.


Explanation
-----------


Java 7u52 said only "Signed Applet Blocked by Security Settings", but
in 7u60 they obviously did dome good work because the message has
become more useful, now it says:

    Application Blocked by Security Settings.  Your security settings
    have blocked a self-signed applet from running.


And thus the explanation for this problem is that I changed the public
version of :ref:`davlink` to be self-signed (not certified).

Solution
--------

- Workaround: leave the :guilabel:`Security Level` in your
  :guilabel:`Java Control Panel` at "Medium" (which indeed is the lowest
  level)

- I must invent some system to install applet signatures per customer.
  I opened a new ticket for this :doc:`107` since it is worth some
  discussion.

References to this
------------------

.. refstothis::
