:state: feedback

#109 : Loading city names into a database
=========================================

Lino currently uses commondata_ to load detailed lists of places in
Belgium and Estonia, together with their zip codes.  The commondata_
project suggests to *write and maintain* the data itself in Python.

.. _commondata: https://github.com/lsaffre/commondata
.. _geonames: http://www.geonames.org
.. _CLDR: http://cldr.unicode.org/

While this is currently satisfying for these two countries, the better
solution is probably to use either geonames_, the CLDR_ or the
`Wikipedia API <https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/API>`_ instead.
But which one?

Geographical names are common knowledge.  You can find them on
Wikipedia where they are `freely available for everybody
<https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/API>`_.  But e.g. for Estonia the
Wikipedia does not give any postal codes. Are postal codes common
knowledge?

There is also the CLDR_ (Unicode Common Locale Data Repository), for
which there is at least one Python interface called `babel.Locale
<http://babel.pocoo.org/docs/locale/>`_.


Related links
-------------

- `Eupen on geonames.org
  <http://www.geonames.org/postalcode-search.html?q=eupen&country=BE>`_

- `django-cities <https://github.com/coderholic/django-cities>`_
  "provides you with place related models (eg. Country, Region, City)
  and data (from GeoNames) that can be used in your django projects."

- `django-cities-light
  <http://django-cities-light.readthedocs.org/en/1.8/index.html>`_ 
  "is very simple and is useful if you want to make a simple address book
  for example"




Pages referring to this
-----------------------

.. refstothis::

