:state: active

========================================================================
#116 : DavLink fails to get permission
========================================================================

:ref:`davlink` fails again after Gerd upgraded from 1.7.52 to 1.7.60.
The Java Console says:

  liveconnect: Security Exception: LiveConnect (JavaScript) blocked
  due to security settings.


First attempt
-------------

Is it possible that they increased severity for the
`Application-Library-Allowable-Codebase
<http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/technotes/guides/jweb/security/manifest.html#app_library>`__
attribute? Because a bit earlier it says:

  security: Missing Application-Library-Allowable-Codebase manifest
  attribute for: http://192.168.0.2:8080/media/davlink/DavLink.jar

I am not sure whether this warning was there before. Unfortunately I
cannot find anything about this neither in the `release notes
<http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/7u60-relnotes-2200106.html>`__
nor in the list of `bug fixes
<http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/2col/7u60-bugfixes-2202029.html>`__,
so this remains a plain assumption.

The documentation states that "This attribute is not needed if the
JAR file for the RIA is in the same location as the JNLP file or HTML
page that starts the RIA." -- Isn't that the case here?  In my case I
have the following URLs:

- HTML page : http://192.168.0.2:8080
- JAR file  : http://192.168.0.2:8080/media/davlink/DavLink.jar
- JNLP file : http://192.168.0.2:8080/media/cache/davlink.jnlp

Are these different "locations"? Does the "location" include the path
component of the URL? When I read the documentation of the `Codebase
<http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/technotes/guides/jweb/security/manifest.html#codebase>`__,
then I'd rather say the opposite. 
But why then the warning?
To verify this, I added this line to my :file:`Manifest.txt`::

  Application-Library-Allowable-Codebase: *

The warning disappears, but the problem is not solved.  Sigh!  Once
again, I am in a situation where I cannot see what I did wrong from
reading the documentation. Once again I am forced to start hacking
blindly using the trial-and-error method.

Second attempt
--------------

After reading `this stackoverflow post
<http://stackoverflow.com/questions/22074063/java-7u51-liveconnect-javascript-blocked-due-to-security-settings>`_
I tried another line to my :file:`Manifest.txt`::

  Caller-Allowable-Codebase: *

And now it passes.  Don't ask me why, I searched the above
documentation and could not find any explanation.

One problem remains: the user must confirm a security warning each
time:

    This web site is requesting access and control of the Java
    application shown above. Allow access only if you trust the web
    site and know that the application is intended to run on this site.

    Allow access to the following applications from this web site?

    Yes -- No -- Help

Another observation: the Java Console complains a little:

  security: Javascript from a non secure page is accessing privileged
  code. Consider using HTTPS protocol when using Javascript -> Java
  liveconnect calls.

We can ignore this security warning since this site is available only
from inside.



Pages referring to this
-----------------------

.. refstothis::

