#118: Backup causes computer to hang after hours of work
========================================================

Ubuntu 14.04. I try to do a backup of my home folder to an external
500 GB hard drive. It says:

  Creating the first backup. This may take a while.

I went to sleep. I woke up and saw that my computer's user interface
hangs. The internal hard disk lights shortly from time to time.  Even
a :kbd: `Ctrl+Alt+F1` and trying to log in to a text console fails.

I switch off the computer and restart it. The :file:`/backup/hoppel`
folder of that drive (specified under Storage location) contains 3033
items::

    duplicity-full.20140726T194808Z.vol1.difftar.gpg
    ...
    duplicity-full.20140726T194808Z.vol3033.difftar.gpg

They all have the same size 52.5 MB.

I deleted these files, added `~/archive` (contains 110 GB) to the
"Folders to ignore" then wanted to tried again. 

Before trying again I noticed that the external drive is almost full
because I moved the 3030 to trash instead of actually deleting them.

When I clicked on the Trash folder in Nautilus, it started a huge
background process just to populate the list of files::


    PID USER  PR  NI    VIRT    RES    SHR S  %CPU %MEM    TIME+ COMMAND     
   3395 root  20   0    8128   6084    760 R  58.9  0.1  8:06.68 mount.ntfs  
   2976 luc   20   0  261168 216900   2996 S  55.9  2.7  7:37.78 gvfsd-trash 
   2738 luc   20   0  274420  60384  23104 S  11.6  0.7  2:52.56 nautilus    

I closed the Nautilus window after 10 minutes, before the right
panel started to display any files, and tried to remove these
files manually::

    
    $ cd '/media/luc/TOSHIBA EXT'
    $ rm -R .Trash-1000

The processes did not stop. So I killed the boss::

    $ kill 2976

Now everything seems ready for a next try.

Seems that there was just too little space on the target drive.
