#125 [closed]  : Change Lino license from LGPL to BSD
=====================================================

After :doc:`79`, Lino is probably getting even more liberal.
Before actually doing it, I use this ticket to explain why.

What does it mean to change the Lino license from LGPL to BSD?  If you
arrived here, then you probably **agree** that software should be free
to use for everybody.  The question is: what should we do with those
who **don't** agree? That is, with those who *don't play nice* and try
to turn our spiritual work into their proprietary software?  Can we
**force** them somehow to play nice?  Until recently I believed that
"We must force them!" (GPL), but I have come to say "Keep cool!"
(BSD).

Here is why I did the move:

- I am fed up with contantly thinking about the copyright topic.
- Anyway the GPL is not enough to get rid of `the copyright plague`_.
- I hope to get more help from Django developers when they are no
  longer locked away by the license

TODO:

- Change contents of `COPYING.txt` file.  `producingoss.com
  <http://producingoss.com/en/license-quickstart.html>`_ gave concrete
  advice about:

  - Which name is better: `COPYING` or `LICENSE`? --> Both are okay, but
    `COPYING` is used most. 
  - Should there be a `.txt` extension? --> No because tradition says so.

- Replace copyright headers in files (how to do it automatically?)



The copyright plague
--------------------

Already back in 396 AD, Saint Augustine wrote "For if a thing is not
diminished by being shared with others, it is not rightly owned if it
is only owned and not shared."  (in `De Doctrina Christiana
<http://www.ccel.org/a/augustine/doctrine/doctrine.html>`_).

Spiritual work is no private property and cannot be used as capital.
Ideas are priceless. Their value is in no relation to the work which
is needed to *get*, to *formulate*, to *spread* and to *develop* them.

Humanity somehow stepped into a wrong direction when we decided that
individual humans who developed some idea should get paid for their
work depending on how often it gets copied or used.

Current copyright laws, including patents, express the direct opposite
of this truth.  Copyright issues cause much work to lawyers, most of
whom probably would prefer to do useful work.

This is what I call the copyright plague.

Pages referring to this:

.. refstothis::
