#143 : Add a `Table.start_at_bottom` option
===========================================

Started: 201411.

When displaying e.g. sales invoices, TIM users are used to "see them
all", but to have the grid "start at the bottom", i.e. to show the
last page (instead of the first) when it opens.

DONE:

- Added the :attr:`dd.AbstractTable.start_at_bottom` option attribute

TODO:

- the `PagingToolbar.cursor` is set to -1, which leads to a wrong
  value for `getPageData().activePage`. Add an onload handler on
  `Lino.GridPanel` or `Lino.GridStore` which sets it to the correct
  value when it is -1.

- test for side effects

IMPLEMENTATION NOTES

The number of the last page depends on the number of rows per page,
which is known only when the table has been rendered on screen.

I tried a pure server-side solution where the user interface is not
aware of this setting, i.e. page 1 means "the last page", page 2 means
"the page before the last page" and so on.  This solution, while
easier to implement, was not usable because the paging behaviour
became intuitively "wrong".  I also considered negative page numbers
which might be less irritating, but the `PagingToolbar` does not
support negative page numbers, and it would be difficult to change
that.
    
So the solution must be client-side, i.e. in 
:xfile:`linoweb.js`.
    
`Table.start_at_bottom` is just as if we had an automatic click to the
`moveLast()` method of the `PagingToolbar` when the grid has been
displayed.

:xfile:`linoweb.js` translates the paging state into the parameters
`URL_PARAM_START` and `URL_PARAM_LIMIT` of the AJAX request.

The `cursor
<http://docs.sencha.com/extjs/3.4.0/#!/api/Ext.PagingToolbar-property-cursor>`_
property of the `Ext.PagingToolbar` indicates the "record position",
i.e. the equivalent of the SQL `offset` clause.  If there is no
toolbar (e.g. in a slave table), then it is 0.
Its AJAX equivalent is `URL_PARAM_START`.

The `pageSize
<http://docs.sencha.com/extjs/3.4.0/#!/api/Ext.PagingToolbar-property-pageSize>`_
property of the `Ext.PagingToolbar` is dynamically calculated when the
grid has been rendered.  It is the SQL `limit` clause and the
`URL_PARAM_LIMIT` of the AJAX request.

Pages referring to this:

.. refstothis::

