#16 : Questions about copyright 
===============================

Is it possible to change Lino's license to LGPL or BSD?
For those who are interested, please read the following page 
and tell me your comments and advice about how I should decide.

The main reason to do so would be to stop refraining 
a certain group of developers from using Lino.

ExtJS and Ext.ensible
---------------------

It seems that Lino **cannot** switch to another license 
as long as we use ExtJS and Ext.ensible.
ExtJS and Ext.ensible are GPLv3, and Lino uses them both.

- Lino generates and serves HTML pages which contain the instruction 
  to include the `*.js` and `*.css` files of these libraries.

- Lino extends Ext classes and overrides Ext functions or methods.
  (See :srcref:`linolib.js </lino/ui/extjs3/linolib.js>`)
  
According to `Sencha's Open Source FAQ 
<http://www.sencha.com/legal/open-source-faq/>`_, 
at least the second point is a modification, 
and "All modifications of a GPLv3 licensed products are subject 
to the GPL v3 license."

Lino does not currently offer a possibility to be used 
without ExtJS and Ext.ensible. 
But this possibility exists theoretically, 
and it is just a question of priorities whether we develop an 
alternative user interface which is not 
based on ExtJS and Ext.ensible.

It is theoretically possible to split Lino into a 
BSD-licensed "kernel" which does not provide any ExtJS based user interface,
and a GPLv3 licensed extension "Lino+".
Lino applications could then be proprietary because 
they "modify" only parts of the *kernel*. 

It's the end-user who 
installs the Lino+ extension (and ExtJS and Ext.ensible)
and decides in a local configuration file to use these GPL products.


Miscellaneous
-------------

What about the copyright notice in :srcref:`/bash/oood`? 
This is based on `oooctl <http://svn.nuxeo.org/nuxeo/tools/ooo/oooctl>`_ 
(copyright "Nuxeo 2007 and contributors" and published using LGPL).
I made modifications and would like to publish my work 
independently with Lino using the GPL.
How to formulate this?

