:state: sleeping
:module: lino.modlib.extjs

#21 : LoadMask for Detail windows
=================================

(This ticket is being discussed at
http://www.sencha.com/forum/showthread.php?124503)

When I doubleclick a  row in a Grid, Lino opens a Detail window for this row.
The problem is that I didn't yet find a way to display a loadMask while 
this window is being built.
And complex windows take some time to render.
And the user is there for several seconds without knowing what's going on.

For example :class:`lino.projects.dsbe.models.Person` has a huge FormPanel as main component.

Here is the code where I think it should happen. 
``Lino.show_detail`` is called by a double click on a GridPanel.

::

  Lino.show_detail = function(panel,btn) {
    Lino.do_on_current_record(panel,
      function(rec) {
        panel.loadMask.show();
        //~ alert('foo');
        panel.ls_detail_handler(panel,{
          record_id:rec.id,base_params:panel.get_base_params()
        });
        panel.loadMask.hide();
      },
      Lino.show_insert
    );
  };
  
``panel.ls_detail_handler`` is the "detail handler" 
configured for this Grid. 
Detail handlers are simple functions that basicalle create 
an :extjs:`Ext.Window` and call `show()` on it. 
Here is a simplified example of a detail handler::

  Lino.contacts.Persons.detail = function(caller,params) { 
    var ww = new Lino.DetailWrapper(caller,...);
    var form_panel1607 = new Lino.contacts.Persons.FormPanel(...);
    ww.main_item = form_panel1607;
    ww.show();
  }



Somebody named end-user 
appearently had the same problem in the thread
`26816 <http://www.sencha.com/forum/showthread.php?26816>`_ 
at ExtJS forum.
But this thread is 3 years old, 
and unfortunately the answers don't really help me.

Interesting observation: 
the loadMask *does* get activated correctly
when I insert a line ``alert('foo')`` before calling the detail handler.

Then I wrote a showcase and 
`posted <http://www.sencha.com/forum/showthread.php?124503>`_ 
the following question to ExtJS forum:

  **loadMask doesn't show while rendering a Window**

  I have a Grid that opens a Detail window when the user doubleclicks a row.
  Since complex Detail windows take some time to render, 
  I'd like to activate the loadMask of the Grid during this time.

  Here is a showcase that demonstrates how I think this should be done.
  But (and this is my problem) the loadMask becomes visible only when I open an alert box 
  before calling the detail window.
  Who knows how I can have the loadMask become visible *without* opening an alert box?

  To run the showcase:
  http://lino.googlecode.com/hg/extjs-showcases/21.html

  To see the source code:
  http://code.google.com/p/lino/source/browse/extjs-showcases/21.html


20110219
--------

Arthur suggested this:
http://lino.googlecode.com/hg/extjs-showcases/21a.html





History:

- :blogref:`20110218` started this document



