#22 : How to implement MTI child/parent conversion
==================================================

On a site that uses Django's MTI, Lino should provide a 
way to "metamorphose" or convert existing data records into a 
more specialized child model, or back into a less 
specialized parent model.

For example, in Lino/DSBE, Company might be a concrete parent model
for HealthInsurance, JobProvider, Pharmacy, CourseProvider.

Murphy's law states that users *will* come with the problem that a Pharmacy or
HealthInsurance starts to organize courses (thus becoming a CourseProvider),
or that a pharmacy has been wrongly entered as a simple Company, 
and of course they will discover this only after having entered 20 invoices 
for this pharmacy ...

The most intuitive and user-friedly way to solve such potential problems 
seems to have then, in the detail window of a Company, 
four checkboxes "is health provider", "is job provider", 
"is pharmacy", "is course provider"
(i.e. one checkbox for every possible child).

When a user creates a CourseProvider #17 and then looks at the Company #17, 
the checkbox is checked. 
If the user then unchecks it and saves the form, 
the CourseProvider record will be removed, 
but the Company record remains.

These checkboxes should probably be virtual fields.
This means that there might be performance problems 
because each of them will require an additional 
database query. 
Or at least subqueries like this::

  SELECT 
    Company.id, 
    Company.name, 
    ..., 
    COUNT(SELECT id FROM Pharmacy WHERE id = Company.id),
    COUNT(SELECT id FROM HealthInsurance WHERE id = Company.id),
    ...
  FROM Company
  
This might be doable using `QuerySet.extra() <http://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/ref/models/querysets/#extra>`_::
  
  QuerySet.extra(select={'is_pharmacy':'COUNT(SELECT id FROM Pharmacy WHERE id = Company.id)',...})
  
Implementing this behaviour using real fields would avoid the performance 
problem, but raise the update problem.

The preformance problem should remain within acceptable limits
because Lino will include these checkboxes only in detail views, 
not in grids.

So for the moment we work on the virtual field implementation.

See detailed presentation in :mod:`lino.test_apps.1.models`.
