=========================================
#31 : The :mod:`lino.modlib.users` module
=========================================

Suggested readings related to the topic:

- Documentation of module :mod:`lino.modlib.users`
- The `Other authentication sources
  <http://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/topics/auth/#other-authentication-sources>`_
  section in the Django docs.
- `Authentication using REMOTE_USER
  <http://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/howto/auth-remote-user/>`_
- `Role-based access control
  <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Role-based_access_control>`_  
  
Request for Comments
--------------------

Don't take the following statements as my definitive opinion.
I formulated them in order to get your feedback and 
help me to understand if I were missing something.

- The :mod:`lino.modlib.users` module is useful
  on Django sites with :doc:`/topics/http_auth`
  where a central user management system is already 
  running.

- Django's 
  `django.contrib.users <https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/topics/auth/>`_ 
  module is overkill in such cases.
  
- Not only overkill, but also it's tests suite reports 
  failures for things that are not used in the above 
  configuration.
  
The `Django documentation 
<https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/topics/auth/#permissions>`_ says:

  Permissions are set globally per type of object, not per specific object instance. For example, it's possible to say "Mary may change news stories," but it's not currently possible to say "Mary may change news stories, but only the ones she created herself" or "Mary may only change news stories that have a certain status, publication date or ID." The latter functionality is something Django developers are currently discussing.  


