#40 : Moving from Ext JS 3 to 4
===============================

Documentation:

- `Ext 3 to 4 Migration <http://www.sencha.com/forum/showthread.php?124015-Ext-3-to-4-Migration>`_ 
  thread in `Forums / 4.0 / Bugs`
  
- `Brian Moeskau's blog <http://www.sencha.com/blog/ext-js-3-to-4-migration/>`_
  
- Get the "Ext JS 3 to 4 Migration Pack" (under "Related Downloads" on the "Downloads" page)

Here is a list of changes I had to do when moving from ExtJS 3 to 4.

- `Ext.lib.Ajax.serializeForm` no longer exists. 
  I temporarily disabled JC Watsons elegant and simple 
  `"fix" for unchecked checkbox submission behaviour
  <http://www.sencha.com/forum/showthread.php?28449>`_
  (adapted to ExtJS 3.3.1 by myself).

- Where is the `GridFilters` plugin? 
  Okay, I can temporaily simply set `USE_GRIDFILTERS` to `False`.
  
- `Ext.ux.form.FileUploadField` (defined previously in 
  :file:`/examples/ux/fileuploadfield/FileUploadField.js`)
  is now :extjs:`Ext.form.field.File`
  
- :file:`/adapter/ext/ext-base.js` is no longer needed

- `Ext.grid.Column.types.checkcolumn` no longer exists. 
  Had to adapt definition of `Lino.CheckColumn` (`xtype` ``checkcolumn``).
  
- `Ext.grid.CellSelectionModel` no longer exists. 
  Temporarily removed my modifications to the standard behaviour of a CellSelectionModel.
  
  Before: ``config.selModel = new Ext.grid.CellSelectionModel()`` 
  
  After: ``config.selType = 'cellmodel'`` 
  
  
- `Ext.grid.EditorGridPanel` is now called `Ext.grid.Panel`.

- Temporarily removed `Ext.ux.plugins.DefaultButton`.

- Changed the value of `Ext.BLANK_IMAGE_URL` from `resources/images/default/s.gif`
  to `/resources/themes/images/default/tree/s.gif`.
  
- Usage of `createDelegate` method has changed. 
  You must now use `Ext.Function.bind`.
  
  Before::

    fn = me.onEditorEvent.createDelegate(me); 
  
  After::
  
    fn = Ext.Function.bind(me.onEditorEvent, me); 
    
    
- `Ext.Toolbar.Button` (which was deprecated) now no longer exists
  Simply use `Ext.button.Button` instead.
  
- Replace `getTopToolbar()` by ... hmm... there is no simple replacement, 
  but here is how I did it:

  When creating the Panel (FormPanel or GridPanel), `tbar` 
  was a simple array of buttons. Instead of saying
  
  ::

    tbar : [...]

  I must say
  
  ::
  
    tbar : {itemId:'tbar',items:[...]}
    
  and later I can get the top toolbar instance using
  
  ::
  
    var tbar = this.getDockedComponent('tbar');
  
- `Ext.data.Store`. 
  Oops, that seems more work.
  The `Data Guide <http://dev.sencha.com/deploy/ext-4.0.0/docs/guide/data.html>`
  gives an overview on the new philosophy.
  Store no longer has a `fields` config option 
  (though it doesn't complain if you give it).
  The new philosophy is to define a Model class that holds the `fields`.
  See :blogref:`20110502`.
  
- In the items of the `tools` config option of ´Panel`, replace `id` by `type`.
  
  