======================
#51 : Lino and OpenERP
======================

Summary
-------

In November 2011 I discovered OpenERP and was amazed 
by how good it is and how well it covers what I can do 
with Lino.

This discovery raises an important question:
Should I drop Lino and join the OpenERP community?
Or continue with Lino and become their concurrent?

The question is important, 
but it will take weeks for me to get familiar with OpenERP 
and feel ready for this decision.

My plan is to write an OpenObject 
application in order to convince myself 
and the Lino users in Eupen.


20111117
--------

I discovered OpenERP:

| http://demo.openerp.com/
| http://www.openerp.com/products/application_builder

If it is really as good as it looks, I will stop working on Lino, 
convert the existing application and use OpenERP instead!
What a pity that I didn't look at this project earlier!
(But what a piece of chance that I discovered it now and not in two years!)

::
  
  $ sudo aptitude install openerp-server
  The following NEW packages will be installed:
    blt{a} graphviz{a} libblas3gf{a} libcdt4{a} libcgraph5{a} libffi5{a} libgd2-noxpm{a} libgfortran3{a}
    libglade2-0{a} libgraph4{a} libgvc5{a} libgvpr1{a} liblapack3gf{a} libpathplan4{a} libpq5{a} libxdot4{a}
    libxss1{a} openerp-server postgresql{a} postgresql-8.4{a} postgresql-client-8.4{a} postgresql-client-common{a}
    postgresql-common{a} python-cairo{a} python-egenix-mxdatetime{a} python-egenix-mxtools{a} python-glade2{a}
    python-gobject{a} python-gtk2{a} python-libxml2{a} python-libxslt1{a} python-matplotlib{a}
    python-matplotlib-data{a} python-numpy{a} python-psycopg2{a} python-pychart{a} python-pydot{a}
    python-pyparsing{a} python-tk{a} python-tz{a} tcl8.5{a} tk8.5{a} ttf-liberation{a}
  0 packages upgraded, 43 newly installed, 0 to remove and 0 not upgraded.
  Need to get 35.7 MB/36.8 MB of archives. After unpacking 181 MB will be used.
  Do you want to continue? [Y/n/?]  
  ...
  Setting up openerp-server (5.0.12-2) ...

  * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *
  * Open ERP uses a PostgreSQL database to store its data. With the first *
  * generation of packages, you have to setup this database manually.     *
  * Please read /usr/share/doc/openerp-server/README.Debian how to do it. *
  * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *  
  

20111118
--------

I assisted to a free webinar held by http://www.openbig.org, very interesting.

20111121
--------

Surf notes

`A forum post in December 2010 <http://www.openerp.com/forum/topic21423.html>`_
Hmm, the forum doesn't seem to be the right place to start learning 
OpenObject.


`OpenERP tools & tips <http://boran.com/book/export/html/25>`_
This guy must be an interesting person.
While he still wrote "the community is currently dominated by 
OpenERP partners", 
I continue to hope that they are working on this problem.
For example the following document obviously is quite recent:
http://doc.openerp.com/v6.0/contribute/01_introduction.html

Aha, there is at least one fork of OpenERP:
http://www.tryton.org


`GettingStartedWithOpenERPDev
<http://code.google.com/p/magento-openerp-smile-synchro/wiki/GettingStartedWithOpenERPDev>`_
Interesting thoughts.
Seems that I should start to get familiar with Eclipse and 
http://pydev.org/






