#9 [closed] : mod_wsgi restarts Lino on each request
====================================================

Lino Server restarts on every web request, wich makes the application *very* slow.

After a first request to "/", :file:`/var/log/apache2/error.log` shows::

  [Wed Oct 27 00:22:46 2010] [notice] \
    Apache/2.2.9 (Debian) mod_wsgi/2.5 Python/2.5.2 configured -- resuming normal operations
    
  [Wed Oct 27 00:24:54 2010] [info] [client 123.123.123.123] \
    mod_wsgi (pid=28043, process='', application='lino.lan.example.com:8080|'): \
    Loading WSGI script '/usr/local/django/myproject/apache.wsgi'.
  [Wed Oct 27 00:24:56 2010] [error] Analyzing Reports...
  [Wed Oct 27 00:24:56 2010] [error] Loading /var/snapshots/lino/lino/config/lino.SiteConfig.dtl...
  [Wed Oct 27 00:24:56 2010] [error] Loading /var/snapshots/lino/lino/modlib/countries/config/countries.Country.dtl...
  [Wed Oct 27 00:24:56 2010] [error] Loading /var/snapshots/lino/lino/modlib/dsbe/config/contacts.Person.dtl...
  [Wed Oct 27 00:24:56 2010] [error] Loading /var/snapshots/lino/lino/modlib/dsbe/config/contacts.Person.2.dtl...
  [Wed Oct 27 00:24:56 2010] [error] Loading /var/snapshots/lino/lino/modlib/dsbe/config/contacts.Person.3.dtl...
  [Wed Oct 27 00:24:56 2010] [error] Loading /var/snapshots/lino/lino/modlib/dsbe/config/contacts.Person.4.dtl...
  [Wed Oct 27 00:24:56 2010] [error] Loading /var/snapshots/lino/lino/modlib/dsbe/config/contacts.Person.5.dtl...
  [Wed Oct 27 00:24:56 2010] [error] Loading /var/snapshots/lino/lino/modlib/dsbe/config/contacts.Company.dtl...
  [Wed Oct 27 00:24:56 2010] [error] Loading /var/snapshots/lino/lino/modlib/notes/config/notes.NoteType.dtl...
  [Wed Oct 27 00:24:56 2010] [error] Loading /var/snapshots/lino/lino/modlib/notes/config/notes.Note.dtl...
  [Wed Oct 27 00:24:56 2010] [error] Loading /var/snapshots/lino/lino/modlib/links/config/links.Link.dtl...
  [Wed Oct 27 00:24:56 2010] [error] Discovering choosers...
  [Wed Oct 27 00:24:56 2010] [error] Reading /var/snapshots/lino/lino/demos/dsbe/lino_settings.py ...
  [Wed Oct 27 00:24:56 2010] [error] This is Lino version 0.8.10.
  [Wed Oct 27 00:24:56 2010] [error] Using Python 2.5.2, Django 1.3 pre-alpha SVN-14148, ReportLab Toolkit 2.1, PyYaml , pyratemp 0.2.0, python-dateutil 1.4.1
  [Wed Oct 27 00:24:56 2010] [error] Lino Site 'DSBE/Lino demo' is ready.
  [Wed Oct 27 00:24:56 2010] [error] Starting user interface lino.ui.extjs
  [Wed Oct 27 00:24:57 2010] [error] Generating /usr/local/lino/media/cache/js/site.js ...
  
  [Wed Oct 27 00:25:17 2010] [info] [client 123.123.123.123] \
    mod_wsgi (pid=28044, process='', application='lino.lan.example.com:8080|'): \
    Loading WSGI script '/usr/local/django/myproject/apache.wsgi'.    
  [Wed Oct 27 00:25:18 2010] [error] Analyzing Reports...
  [Wed Oct 27 00:25:18 2010] [error] Loading /var/snapshots/lino/lino/config/lino.SiteConfig.dtl...
  [Wed Oct 27 00:25:18 2010] [error] Loading /var/snapshots/lino/lino/modlib/countries/config/countries.Country.dtl...
  [Wed Oct 27 00:25:18 2010] [error] Loading /var/snapshots/lino/lino/modlib/dsbe/config/contacts.Person.dtl...
  [Wed Oct 27 00:25:18 2010] [error] Loading /var/snapshots/lino/lino/modlib/dsbe/config/contacts.Person.2.dtl...
  [Wed Oct 27 00:25:18 2010] [error] Loading /var/snapshots/lino/lino/modlib/dsbe/config/contacts.Person.3.dtl...
  [Wed Oct 27 00:25:18 2010] [error] Loading /var/snapshots/lino/lino/modlib/dsbe/config/contacts.Person.4.dtl...
  [Wed Oct 27 00:25:18 2010] [error] Loading /var/snapshots/lino/lino/modlib/dsbe/config/contacts.Person.5.dtl...
  [Wed Oct 27 00:25:18 2010] [error] Loading /var/snapshots/lino/lino/modlib/dsbe/config/contacts.Company.dtl...
  [Wed Oct 27 00:25:18 2010] [error] Loading /var/snapshots/lino/lino/modlib/notes/config/notes.NoteType.dtl...
  [Wed Oct 27 00:25:18 2010] [error] Loading /var/snapshots/lino/lino/modlib/notes/config/notes.Note.dtl...
  [Wed Oct 27 00:25:18 2010] [error] Loading /var/snapshots/lino/lino/modlib/links/config/links.Link.dtl...
  [Wed Oct 27 00:25:18 2010] [error] Discovering choosers...
  [Wed Oct 27 00:25:18 2010] [error] Reading /var/snapshots/lino/lino/demos/dsbe/lino_settings.py ...
  [Wed Oct 27 00:25:18 2010] [error] This is Lino version 0.8.10.
  [Wed Oct 27 00:25:18 2010] [error] Using Python 2.5.2, Django 1.3 pre-alpha SVN-14148, ReportLab Toolkit 2.1, PyYaml , pyratemp 0.2.0, python-dateutil 1.4.1
  [Wed Oct 27 00:25:18 2010] [error] Lino Site 'DSBE/Lino demo' is ready.
  [Wed Oct 27 00:25:18 2010] [error] Starting user interface lino.ui.extjs
  [Wed Oct 27 00:25:18 2010] [error] Generating /usr/local/lino/media/cache/js/site.js ...    
    
These same messages appear again and again for each process.


The following statements helped to understand the problem:

- set LogLevel directive in Apache to 'info'. This will cause mod_wsgi to 
  output extra debug 
  information in Apache error logs about when it is starting up 
  processes, loading WSGI script file etc. Would possibly like to see 
  this so can rule out daemon process crashing at some point and having 
  to restarted for each request. 
  [#f2]_
  
- Have you confirmed in some way that your application is in fact running in daemon mode?
  [#f1]_
  
- Be aware that on UNIX systems you have the choice of using mod_wsgi in embedded mode 
  or daemon mode. If you are not adept at configuring Apache and do not know how to 
  tune Apache MPM settings to suit a specific type of application, 
  then make sure you use mod_wsgi daemon mode.  
  [#f3]_
  
- To make use of daemon mode for WSGI applications hosted within a specific site, 
  the 
  `WSGIDaemonProcess 
  <http://code.google.com/p/modwsgi/wiki/ConfigurationDirectives#WSGIDaemonProcess>`_ 
  and 
  `WSGIProcessGroup 
  <http://code.google.com/p/modwsgi/wiki/ConfigurationDirectives#WSGIProcessGroup>`_ 
  directives would need to be defined.
  [#f4]_

- are you still loading mod_python? In some cases mod_python can interfere with 
  mod_wsgi and cause strange problems. When it occurs it is usually results in 
  crashes, but don't rule out other things. 
  [#f2]_
  
  
Solution
--------

Explanation was that mod_wsgi wasn't running in daemon mode.

Solution was to add 2 lines to Apache config::

    WSGIDaemonProcess example.com threads=15
    WSGIProcessGroup example.com

See also :srcref:`docs/tickets/10`.

.. rubric:: Footnotes

.. [#f1] http://groups.google.com/group/django-users/browse_thread/thread/2ff4e4b34b9afb44?pli=1
.. [#f2] http://groups.google.com/group/modwsgi/browse_thread/thread/e33565e5cb4e2f2e
.. [#f3] http://code.djangoproject.com/wiki/django_apache_and_mod_wsgi
.. [#f4] http://code.google.com/p/modwsgi/wiki/QuickConfigurationGuide#Delegation_To_Daemon_Process

