:state: sleeping
:module: lino.modlib.vocbook

#92 : A Sphinx extension for writing language courses
=====================================================

Since September 2006 I give French lessons to the catering cooks at
`Vana-Vigala vocational school <http://web.vigalattk.ee/>`_.  Every
year one to 3 groups, each group gets a total of 15 academic hours.  A
rather small job thus.

But I invested rather much time into the content and material for this
course. The current result of my work is here:
http://cfr.saffre-rumma.net/


Why do I do this?  Certainly not for getting more money! Teachers in
general are underpaid in Estonia.  I rather do it because they asked
me...  because it gives me fun and joy...  because I believe it is
useful for cooks to know some bases of French...  and last but not
least, I do this because for me it is research work:

    Develop a collection of free software tools for language teachers
    for authoring, publishing and maintaining teaching materials for
    their pupils and for other teachers.
    

Features
--------

The site is an example of how I would write and maintain my "teaching
material", a collection of documents I use to give my lessons. I'd
summarize the features of my system as follows:

- automatic generation of a dictionary with reference to where in the
  course each word is used.

- one "knowledge database" to generate multiple courses and multiple
  versions of a course.

- the system is designed for make it easy to reuse existing units to
  build a new course.


How do I do this?
-----------------
    
The above website has been built using the :mod:`lino.modlib.vocbook`
package.  Since all this is rather experimental, there's currently no
hope that a non-programmer will manage to use my tools for doing a
similar job.


To do
-----

- Contact people behind `innovatsioonikeskus.ee
  <http://www.innovatsioonikeskus.ee/et/repositooriumid>`_ and
  `innove.ee <http://innove.ee/et/kutseharidus>`_ and 
  check whether it makes sense to continue.

- Convert `vocbook` itself into a Sphinx extension and `fr4et.py` into
  a doctree. **Or**, alternatively, convert `vocbook` into a Lino
  application with models like FrenchWord, EstonianWord, Book, Unit,
  Atom, VocEntry, ...

  (Both directions are quite some work. The latter is more realistic
  but requires end-users willing to invest their time.)
  

