Version 0.8.13
==============

Released 27.11.-01.12.2010

New features
------------

- Ich habe die besprochenen neuen Felder in `dsbe.Contracts` größtenteils 
  fertig und auch ein bisschen mit appy.pod gespielt. War alles sehr erfreulich.

- Man kann jetzt pro Firmenart eine Vertragsart angeben, die Lino dann par défaut 
  in neuen Verträgen mit dieser Firma einträgt.

- New buttons "Clear cache" and "Edit template" on printables. (See :blogref:`20101124`)

- Grid no longer has a bottom toolbar. row actions accessible only through context menu. 
  "Save GC" button now as a window tool button. (See :blogref:`20101124`)
  
- New module "Uploads". (See :blogref:`20101122`)

- database changes logging. Änderungen in den Daten an sich werden jetzt in 
  einer separaten Datei :file:`/var/log/lino/db.log` geloggt.

- Detail windows now have a Refresh button. 


Bugs fixed
----------

- Standard values on a phantom row are no longer visible.  (:blogref:`20101116`)

- Coachings and user were missing in a Person's detail.  (:blogref:`20101116`)

- performance of previous/next buttons in Detail view of 
  reports with over thousand records might be better. (:blogref:`20101116`)

- problem of distorted pictures might be solved (:blogref:`20101116`)

- Lino should now start to send an email to the admins for every error.

- Die "Konsole" zum Anzeigen von Meldungen nimmt jetzt weniger unnützen Platz 
  (ist jetzt immer collapsed und die Meldungen werden im Title angezeigt).


Upgrade instructions
--------------------

- Upgrade your copy of the Lino sources::

    cd /var/snapshots/lino
    hg pull -u
    
- Move the doctemplates directory (which until now was in 
  ``settings.PROJET_DIR + "/doctemplates"``) 
  to 
  ``settings.MEDIA_ROOT + "/webdav/doctemplates"``. 
  This should be something like::
  
      cd /usr/local/django/myproject
      mv doctemplates /usr/local/lino/media/webdav
      
  See :blogref:`20101124`.
    
  
- The usual things in your local directory::

    cd /usr/local/django/myproject
    python manage.py initdb_tim
    python manage.py make_staff
  
- Restart Apache::

    sudo /etc/init.d/apache2 restart

