==================================
20140106 (Monday, 06 January 2014)
==================================

`djangosite.Plugins` and `django.apps`
--------------------------------------

Aymeric is really genial! I have now hope that I'll be able to kick
off djangosite when Django 1.7 is out! To prepare this, I started to
install certain shortcut names to :mod:`lino.dd`: `dd.apps` is
shortcut to `settings.SITE.plugins` and shout be preferred to avoid
application code changes when Lino switches.

Debtors and Creditors
---------------------

Added new predefined parameter panels 
:class:`dd.Yearly <lino.core.actors.Yearly>` 
and 
:class:`dd.Today <lino.core.actors.Today>`.

Finished Debtors and Creditors tables (started yesterday).
Added a test case for each of them to :ref:`cosi.tested.ledger`.


Added them to user documentation
and made it available on :ref:`lf` as
`cosi.userdocs`.

Added a new `ledger.Situation` report.
But that's not yet what we need. 
We need something similar to `lino_welfare.modlib.integ.Overview`.
The Situation report should 
show a real summary with clickable numbers, something like::

  Debtors     2761,42
  Creditors   4932,01

            Jan Feb Mar ...
  Turnover  ... ...
  Costs     ... ...
  ...       ... ...



Miscellaneous
-------------

There was a bug in :meth:`atelier.test.TestCase.run_simple_doctests`
which caused ot to not yet support wildcard file specs. Fixed.

And :mod:`atelier.sphinxconf` now ooks for an attribute
`intersphinx_url_userdocs` instead of having a hard-coded list of
projects with userdocs.

