===================================
20140107 (Tuesday, 07 January 2014)
===================================

Gerichtsvollzieher und Inkasso-Unternehmen
------------------------------------------

:ref:`welfare`: 
I opened ticket `#1 : Inkasso-Unternehmen
<http://welfare.lino-framework.org/tickets/1.html>`_
and started to work on it.


Blogging about multiple Django projects
---------------------------------------

Some thoughts on a dilemma 
when blogging about multiple Django projects.

- it is not efficient to blog about application-specific things
  without using the ``ddref`` role.

- the ``ddref`` role cannot work in a multi-project blog because
  there cannot be more than one Django `settings` module per Python
  process.

The only solution seems to be a new habit of blogging using a "blog
generator": 

- instead of writing one blog entry per day as I have been doing
  during more than a year now, I have the blog pages generated from
  collected "blog notes".

- I have a ``tickets`` directory for each project and get used to work
  "per ticket".

- I write an Emacs function to insert "blog entries" at the end of a
  ticket file::

    (defun blog ()
      (interactive)
      (insert (format-time-string ".. blognote:: %Y-%m-%d %R \n\n  ")))

Added a new ``.. blognote::`` directive in :mod:`atelier.sphinxconf`.
This is not yet active, i.e. it doesn't yet generate daily blog
pages.


Inkasso-Schulden
----------------

Kerstin phoned me.
Opened new ticket :doc:`/tickets/80`.
Wrote a first implementation.
  

