====================================
20140109 (Thursday, 09 January 2014)
====================================

The documentation system
------------------------

I had some visions on what is still needed to make the Lino
documentation system usable.  Started to write documentation about it
in :doc:`/dev/userdocs`.  My motivation is a meeting scheduled for Jan
22nd in Eupen with Gerd and Melanie.

- Added a new :rst:dir:`currentlanguage` directive which solves a
  subtle problem when documenting multilingual Lino applications: I
  want to write tickets in the language of the user who reported
  it. That language is not necessarily English. I don't want to
  translate tickets. But I want to expand :role:`ddref` roles into the
  user's language, not to English.

- Added two directives and roles called :rst:dir:`directive` and
  :rst:dir:`role` in :mod:`atelier.sphinxconf`.
  (Edit: which I removed :blogref:`20140604`.)

- New module :mod:`atelier.sphinxconf.dirtables` with directives to
  automatically generate tables from the files of a directory.  

The idea behind all this was a full ticket management system: since
tickets are usually being managed by programmers, it would be normal
to store them rather usint .rst files than in a database.

But I abandoned this idea when I saw that the :rst:dir:`entry_intro`
directive can't insert the document's metadata because these fields
become available in the `docinfo` node only when the document has
finished to parse. I would have to defer the rendering until after
that.

Before doing this, I'll rather try from the other side, by storing
them in a database.
