==================================
20140117 (Friday, 17 January 2014)
==================================

Tidying up :mod:`atelier.sphinxconf`
------------------------------------

I didn't checkin yesterday's changes because one "detail" was missing:
"sphinxcontrib.dailyblog" would have been the wrong name for this
project. Because the "daily blog" things were in
"sphinxcontrib.dailyblog.blog". The name should rather have been
something like "Luc's Sphinx Extensions".

But after a night of sleep I discovered another "detail":
if anyway the new project would always depend on atelier, 
why then split it into a separate project?

So I decided to undo most changes, i.e. to not move
:mod:`atelier.sphinxconf` into a separate module.

Only one change remains: atelier now supports namespace packages (and
thus the fablib command :fab:`summary` no longer prints "old" and
"new" version because that would require the Distribution object
(returned from `pkg_resources.get_distribution`) which afaics makes
problems for namespace packages.

And of course the thing which caused all these evolutions: the new
:directive:`refstothis` directive, which I finally implemented in a
new Sphinx extension module :mod:`atelier.sphinxconf.refstothis`.

TODO: continue to tidy up.
Opened new ticket :doc:`/tickets/89`.

The modules 
:mod:`atelier.sphinxconf.insert_input`,
:mod:`atelier.sphinxconf.dirtables`,
:mod:`atelier.sphinxconf.base`
and :mod:`atelier.sphinxconf.refstothis`
are now standalone Sphinx extensions.



New setting :setting:`contacts.hide_region`
-------------------------------------------

A visitor of the :ref:`cosi` demo site had caused the 
following :ref:`ise`::

  AttributeError at /api/contacts/Persons
  'Person' object has no attribute 'city_zip_code'

This bug occurred only for Partners with a non-empty 
`region` field. This is not yet well tested.

Until now, every :mod:`lino_cosi.models` did the following code::

    @dd.when_prepared('contacts.Person', 'contacts.Company')
    def hide_region(model):
        model.hide_elements('region')

Which made it basically impossible to run a "non-Belgian" :ref:`cosi` 
site.

Now this is done using the :setting:`contacts.hide_region` 
plugin setting, and :ref:`cosi` by default no longer 
hides the field.

I also tried to add the MergeAction unconditionally to every Person
and Company, but that turned out to not be so easy. 
See :doc:`/tickets/90`.

TODO: The `few_cities` fixture doesn't yet set the `parent` field for 
Eupen,  Kettenis and other places.
