===================================
20140128 (Tuesday, 28 January 2014)
===================================

Lino documentation
------------------

- Added a new section :ref:`people` in Lino's :doc:`/about/thanks`
  document.  It was high time to start such a list: already now I am
  impressed to see how many people have actually contributed to Lino
  and how difficult it is to remember them all...

- Funny coincidence: after having started this list I checked my inbox
  and read a `blog entry by Repentinus
  <http://blogs.fsfe.org/repentinus/english/2014/01/27/a-short-excursion-into-the-estonian-language-and-its-corpus-planning-as-it-relates-to-free-software/>`_
  where he describes his (and other people's) fight for getting fixed
  a linguistical problem. 
  Added a link to the `PDFreaders <http://pdfreaders.org/>`_ 
  campaign page.


Automatic chooser for the GenericForeignKey field
-------------------------------------------------

Joe contributed two more small changes (see the code repository for
details) and added a comment:

    Just tell me if you think I should write a test case - I don't want to
    get any non-working crap into Lino's core.  But I don't know what to
    test and how to write the test for this GUI-based modification.

Yes, testing these parts of the user interface is difficult. I did
some first experiments using jasmine and phantomjs and came to the
conclusion that it's too early to require such rigorousness.

But I'd like to "see it with my own eyes" by having it covered by a
tutorial.

For example, at least the `get_{fk_field}_display` is visible in
:ref:`lino.tutorial.watch`.

TODO: write a similar tutorial which focusses on the GFK field.


Miscellaneous
-------------


Continued on :ref:`faggio`:

- `courses.EnrolmentsByPupil` now includes the amount.
- Translations
