=====================================
20140129 (Wednesday, 29 January 2014)
=====================================

Miscellaneous
-------------

Fixed a bug in
:meth:`lino.core.fields.GenericForeignKey.contribute_to_class`: the
default `get_{fk_field}_display` installed automatically caused a test
in :ref:`faggio` to fail with "AttributeError: 'Event' object has no
attribute 'object_type'".

Sozialsekretariat
-----------------


Worked on :doc:`/tickets/93`.  Tried the idea "Nicht neue app
`attestations`, sondern bestehende `outbox` verwenden."  and
understood that this was bullshit: `outbox` can't replace
`attestations`.  Because an `outbox.Mail` also has a subject and a
body.

Removed fields `SiteConfig.attestation_note_nature` and
`Note.is_attestation` (IOW no longer inject them in
:mod:`lino_welfare.modlib.reception`).

"Bescheinigung Ausländerbeihilfe" und "Anwesenheitsbescheinigung" sind
die beiden Bescheinigungsarten, die in der `lino_welfare.fixtures.std`
definiert werden. Das sind jetzt keine NoteType mehr sondern
AttestationType.

An Attestation does not need a `date` field but a timestamp. But which
moment should get stamped? When it was created? printed? modified?  Or
all of them? Some thoughts:

- Creation time is usually not important.

- Attestations are generally not editable after they have 
  been issued.

- Modification made by a system adminstrator "for technical reason"
  should not lead to an update of the timestamp.

As a first suggestion the `build_time` field is what we want
here. Maybe a method `get_attestation_date` to make that choice
overridable. But anyway we'll see in practice what's necessary.

Ein Lebenslauf ist jetzt keine Ereignis/Notiz mehr, sondern eine
Bescheinigung. Bei der Migration müssen bestehende Lebenläufe
konvertiert werden. 

New setting :setting:`extjs.use_statusbar` because I'd like to 
collect feedback about whether this is used at all.

Der Reiter "Status" wurde aufgeteilt in "Arbeit" und "Hilfen".
Letzterer zeigt jetzt nicht mehr *ein* Feld "Sozialhilfeart"
(aid_type), sondern eine Liste aller im Laufe der Zeit bewilligten
Hilfen.

The following items are now done:

#.  Eigene Tabelle für Bescheinigungen
    (:mod:`lino.modlib.attestations` statt
    SiteConfig.attestation_note_nature und NoteType.is_attestation).

#.  Einkommensbescheinigungen und sonstige Hilfen als eigene Tabelle
    implementieren (`aids.Aid` und `aids.Type` ("Hilfen")). 

    - Art (EiEi, Ausländerbeihilfe, Heizkosten, Feste Beihilfe,
      Erstattung, Übernahmeschein, DMH-Übernahmeschein, Möbellager)

    - von, bis 
    - Periodizität (Jährlich, ...)
    - Beschlussdatum
    - Gremium (SHR, SP, SAS)

    - Kategorie (wenn EiEi oder Ausländer: 
      3 Person mit Familienlasten (personne qui cohabite avec une
      famille à sa charge)
      2 Alleinstehend (persone isolée)
      1 Zusammenlebend (cohabitant)

    - Betrag


The following item is also done, but this was complex. Needs
documentation. The cal module no longer uses `add_detail_panel` and
add_detail_tab. These methods should be deprecated because they are not overrideable. Use a UserDetailMixin panel instead.

#.  Feld "User.calendar" fehlt im :ref:`welfare.users.UserDetail`



TODO:

- Frage an Gerd: Ich schätze mal, dass die Kinder (Nutzniesser) eines
  Hilfsantrags für jeden Antrag neu erfasst/gespeichert werden
  müssen. Stimmt das?
  
- Welche Angaben sollten von Client nach Aid kommen?


Checked in after landing in Tallinn despite several (trivial) test
failures.
