===================================
20140207 (Friday, 07 February 2014)
===================================

Production upgrade without release
----------------------------------

Yesterday I did an upgrade of a production site. Do I need to do
something before continuing development of the master branch in order
to mark this moment in history? 

I used to do this by doing an official sdist and release on PyPI, 
but that's always a bunch of useless work. 

I mean that when I will do my **next** upgrade on that production
site, then I'd like to have a way to step back all code projects to
this version in case of emergency. But without needing to write down
the revision hashcode of each project before doing my general pull.

I though that I can use tags to do something similar.  I read some git
docs (`gittutorial <http://git-scm.com/docs/gittutorial>`_, `git-tags
<http://git-scm.com/docs/git-tag.html>`_) and then ran the following
command::

  $ pp git tag 20140206

Will this be enough? Future will show me...

GuestStates.accepted
--------------------

Occasionally I stumble over the following problem:

The `GuestStates.accepted` workflow state is an interesting special
case because it exists only when a given "workflow module" has been
imported. More concretely, :ref:`faggio` doesn't know this guest
state, but :ref:`welfare` does.

Currently this causes problems when generating the api doc for
:mod:`lino.modlib.reception`.


Anwesenheitsbescheinigungen
---------------------------

Cool! Prinzipiell funktioniert es jetzt: wir haben jetzt eine neue
Kolonne "Default for" in der Liste der Bescheinigungsarten. Dort wird
ein Modell ausgewählt. Ih erstelle eine Bescheinigungsart
"Anwesenheitsbescheinigung", die dort "cal.Guest" reingesetzt kriegt.
Wenn ich jetzt (in egal welcher Ansicht) auf einem `cal.Guest` auf
"Bescheinigung ausstellen" klicke, dann erstellt er das Dokument und
zeigt es an. Ohne weitere Zwischenfragen.

Jetzt fehlt nur noch der langweiligere Teil: die Vorlagen und die
Demo-Datenbank müssen angepasst werden.


Browser extensions
------------------

Started research for :doc:`/tickets/96`.

After this I decided to remain with Java for some time because
websockets is another huge and dynamic chapter of web history, and
because :ref:`davlink` and :ref:`eidreader` work perfectly, the only
problem being Java who doesn't always *allow* them to work.

