===================================
20140214 (Friday, 14 February 2014)
===================================

Running TIM using Wine
----------------------

I finally managed to have TIM running under Wine. Itäs just a question
of how to organize your files. And then some configuration tuning.

First problem was that Wine didn't find some required runtime DLL files.
I ran winecfg and specified that `T:` points to `~/vbshared2/drives/T`.

Another problem was that the screen painting was very slow.  Probably
related to the following messages on stdout::

    fixme:font:freetype_SelectFont Untranslated charset 255
    fixme:font:freetype_SelectFont Untranslated charset 255
    fixme:font:get_nearest_charset returning DEFAULT_CHARSET \
       face->fs.fsCsb[0] = 00000000 file = (null)
    fixme:font:freetype_SelectFont Untranslated charset 254
    fixme:font:get_nearest_charset returning DEFAULT_CHARSET \
      face->fs.fsCsb[0] = 00000000 file = (null)
    
    
More attestations
-----------------

Working on :srcref:`docs/tickets/93`.

.. currentmodule:: lino.modlib.attestations

Would it make sense to also turn a `debts.Budget` into an attestable?
Yesterday on the phone with Gerd we said "Yes", but meanwhile I'd
rather say "No".  

Because `welfare.debts.Budget` is rather like
`welfare.jobs.Contract` and `welfare.isip.Contract` (and
like `welfare.cbss.RetrieveTIGroupsRequest` and
`welfare.notes.Note`): these objects are printable "by
themselves": they are usually printed exactly once, and the user does 
not care about a history of printings. 

Code changes:
    
- One detail to make this topic more clear is that the "Create
  Attestation" button should be placed next to the "print" button.
    
- And another detail: a better label for `CreateAttestation` ("Create
  attestation") would be simply "Attest". And the name of the action
  itself is :class:`AttestAction`.

- The `migrate_from_1_1_10.py` script generated by
  :mod:`lino_welfare.migrate` is now a bit more elaborate: it defines a
  `doit()` function which I can hack in order to play with it. 


Miscellaneous
-------------

Joe contributed 2 more changesets:

- `Add more parameters to modlib changes table  
  <https://github.com/lsaffre/lino/pull/7>`_

- `Fix Logout action not reloading page properly 
  <https://github.com/lsaffre/lino/pull/8>`_

While testing these I noted that there is a bug which maybe existed
already before: the "Home" button does not always close all windows.

And there was a bug in the Lino test suite: it tried to 
`run_simple_doctests` on :file:`lino/apps/cal/utils.py`
(instead of :file:`lino/modlib/cal/utils.py`).
