===================================
20140221 (Friday, 21 February 2014)
===================================

With Manuel we are creating "Lino Sunto", an application to manage
products and vendors:

https://github.com/ManuelWeidmann/lino-sunto

Our application is to be run on an intranet where no authentication is
required. Thus :setting:`user_model` can remain empty, and 
:mod:`lino.modlib.users` is not installed.

After having added a detail_layout to our Products table, 
we were no longer allowed to add rows.
The insert window showed up, but all entry fields were disabled 
and the SubmitInsert and SubmitInsertAndStay buttons were missing.
That was because we had no users.
I fixed this by removing the 
``required = dict(user_level='user')``
that was defined on 
:class:`lino.core.actions.SubmitDetail`
and subclasses.

While discovering the above, I tried to activate authentication 
by :setting:`user_model` to ``"users.User"``
and adding :mod:`lino.modlib.users` to my :setting:`get_installed_apps`,
just for testing whether it works then. 
This revealed another series of subtle problems:

The fixtures 
`demo` and `demo2` 
who create Robin Rood, Rolf Rompen their friends 
have been until now in 
:mod:`lino.modlib.system`
for some subtle historical reason.
Now they are in :mod:`lino.modlib.users`.

These fixtures din't work when :setting:`languages` was not set
(because 
:meth:`apply_languages <north.north_site.Site.apply_languages>`
did not call 
:meth:`setup_languages <north.north_site.Site.setup_languages>`
in that case.) 

Lino also required :mod:`lino.modlib.system` to be installed when
:setting:`user_model` was non-empty.  No longer.

Moved two doctest cases from the Lino blog to
:ref:`welfare.tested.general` because they caused the Lino test suite
to fail on a system without :ref:`welfare` installed.

Restored some failing test cases in the :ref:`north` test suite.
