=====================================
20140227 (Thursday, 27 February 2014)
=====================================



Uff, the explanation for :srcref:`docs/tickets/99` was complex:

First I had to learn that this was a case of logging *before*
:func:`lino.utils.log.configure` was run. That's why my first series
of Plugin instantiations was never shown.  

Lesson: When you want to log things that happen *before* Django calls
:func:`lino.utils.log.configure`, then of course you must configure
logging manually.

Second I had forgotten that `override_defaults` is also called from
:mod:`djangosite.utils.djangotest`. This caused the second
instantiation.

It is also possible that Lino did not correctly detect whether logging
is already configured.

I removed the ``apps = settings.site.plugins`` from :mod:`lino.dd` and
later realized this this was not necessary. Maybe I will restore it
one day.

One day I should really get used to use the debugger in such cases
instead of adding `print` statements and `logger.info` calls every
here and there.




One useless feature less
------------------------

In :blogref:`20131014` I added a new feature: "Lino now supports
insert_layout with only one element: it uses then a hard-coded height
of 10 lines."

Joe reported a problem caused by this feature and suggested to simply
remove it "because it generates some surprising results. I think
layout with only one item should by default use "auto" size."

He is absolutely right, this was a silly feature.


