==================================
20140306 (Thursday, 06 March 2014)
==================================

The `mergedata` management command
----------------------------------

The new management command :manage:`mergedata` takes the full name of
a python module as argument. It then imports this module and expects
it to define a function `objects` in its global namespace. It calls
this function and expects it to yield a series of Django instance
objects which have not yet been saved. It then compares these objects
with the "corresponding data" in the database and prints a summary to
stdout. It then suggests to merge the new data into the database.

- It never *deletes* any stored records.
- All incoming objects *either* replace an existing (stored) object, *or*
  will be added to the database.
- If an incoming object has a non-empty primary key, then it replaces
  the corresponding stored object. Otherwise, if the model has
  `unique` fields, then these cause potential replacement.


Upgrade in Châtelet
-------------------

- :mod:`lino.modlib.statbel.fixtures.inscodes` now gives more helpful
  error report when `Place.MultipleObjectsReturned` occurs.

- ``props`` was lacking in the :setting:`demo_fixtures` of
  :mod:`lino_welfare.settings.fr`.

- translations



sphinx-build gettext very slow
------------------------------

I want to write and maintain multilingual end-user documentation for
my software applications using "sphinx-build gettext".  For example,
here is the source of one of my doctrees:
https://github.com/lsaffre/lino-welfare/tree/master/userdocs

I noticed that, already on a medium-sized doctree, a build can become
very slow. By inserting print statements at different places I found
out that the slowness is due to the calculations done in
`sphinx.versioning` (called by `Environment.read_doc`) where it merges
doctrees for each document.

Is there hope that I can get it accelerated?  Am I doing something
wrong?



'module' object has no attribute 'CoachingEvents'
-------------------------------------------------

Trying to get a :ref:`welfare.integ.ActivityReport` failed with an
AttributeError 'module' object has no attribute 'CoachingEvents'.

Fixed.


ERROR 'NoneType' object has no attribute 'PendingCourseRequests'
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "/home/luc/hgwork/lino/lino/core/tables.py", line 214, in execute
    self._data_iterator = self.get_data_iterator()
  File "/home/luc/hgwork/lino/lino/core/tables.py", line 254, in get_data_iterator
    for row in self.actor.get_data_rows(self):
  File "/home/luc/hgwork/welfare/lino_welfare/modlib/integ/models.py", line 262, in get_data_rows
    yield add(courses.PendingCourseRequests)
AttributeError: 'NoneType' object has no attribute 'PendingCourseRequests'


