==================================
20140403 (Thursday, 03 April 2014)
==================================

More database changes
---------------------

I discovered that the **Team** and **Membership** models 
in :mod:`lino.modlib.users` weren't used at all. So I removed them.

The automatic user calendar and subscriptions  is now generated 
in :ref:`welfare` each time a User objects get saved.
This is documented and tested in :ref:`welfare.tested.cal`.

Lino's :class:`User <lino.modlib.users.models.User>`
model itself was not yet extendable using the 
:attr:`extend_models <djangosite.Plugin.extend_models>` 
attribute.


Why is there is no "Calendar" field per Event?
The answer is now in :mod:`lino.modlib.cal`.


Obey the goat
-------------

I stumbled over a blog entry `Book upgraded to Django 1.7!
<http://www.obeythetestinggoat.com/book-upgraded-to-django-17.html>`_
by Harry Percival where he writes how the fact that Django comes now
with migrations out of the box influenced his way of explaining
models in his book `Test-Driven-Development with Python`.

Very interesting.  One day I should read that book.  Though I am
afraid that my method of development is *not* test-driven, it is
prototype-driven. First write a prototype and demo data. Testing is
only at second place.



Entering IBAN numbers manually
------------------------------

When entering IBAN numbers manually, the worst problem was that you
had take yourself care of typing the two first letters uppercase.

In TIM you could simply specify "@k@!" as the field's "picture" to get
this behaviour.  In ExtJS this is not trivial.

A snippet posted by `Manel Juàrez
<http://www.sencha.com/forum/member.php?109001-maneljn>`_ in Oct 2011
in a thread `textfield auto conversion to uppercase while writing
<http://www.sencha.com/forum/showthread.php?150336-textfield-auto-conversion-to-uppercase-while-writing>`_
showed me how to do it:

- the `<text>` element must have style `text-transform:uppercase;`
- and that's not enough because the value remains lowercase. The field
  must have a listener similar to this::

    listeners:{
      change: function(field, newValue, oldValue){
      field.setValue(newValue.toUpperCase());
    }


Wrote `lino.ui.elems.UppercaseFieldElement` which does this. 

But there's another problem: Lino uses the grid's ``afteredit`` event
to send data. And this event is triggered before the field's
``change`` event.  To solve this correctly, we probably need to change
some internals of `Lino.GridPanel`. This is in fact a job which could
be delegated.  I'd rather do the other open items of my todo list
before diving into this.

(Continued :blogref:`20140405`)
