======================
Monday, April 21, 2014
======================


Customizable SubmitInsert actions
---------------------------------

Uff! I feel (a bit) as if Lino had resurrected from death.  

Since Friday I had been fiddling in the JavaScript part of the new
customizable implementation for SubmitInsert actions. `weblino.js` is
really very tricky. Now it is a bit cleaner. There should be no
visible changes, neither in user interface nor in the API.

Checked in so that others may test it. Thanks in advance for any bug
reports.

The last part will be again in Python and thus much easier: imagine an
API for rewriting a SubmitInsert and write the first use case: test
for duplicates before creating new client, with interactive
confirmation if necessary.


Sphinx-apidoc
-------------

Wes Turner wrote `a new command-line option for sphinx-apidoc
<https://bitbucket.org/birkenfeld/sphinx/issue/1456/apidoc-add-a-m-option-to-put-module>`_
that implements an idea `apidoc output format
<https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/sphinx-users/Bm4w7OQcWYM>`
which I posted in January to sphinx-users.  I adapted my :fab:`api`
command in :mod:`atelier.fablib` to use this option.



Customizable SubmitInsert actions (continued)
---------------------------------------------

Instead of writing ``ar.response.update(foo=X)`` we now recommend
``ar.set_response(foo=X)``. This has the advantage of raising
(immediately) an exception when you specify an invalid keyword.

Started a documentation page about :doc:`/dev/actions` for developers.

The new action :class:`SubmitInsertClient
<lino_welfare.modlib.pcsw.models.SubmitInsertClient>` is the first
example on how to use the new feature in application code.
The application developer writes a new Action::


    from lino.core.actions import SubmitInsert

    class SubmitInsertClient(SubmitInsert):
        def run_from_ui(self, ar, **kw):
            obj = ar.create_instance_from_request()

            def ok(ar2):
                self.save_new_instance(ar2, obj)

            if obj.first_name == 'Foo':
                ar.confirm(ok, _("Is that true? Your name is 'Foo'?"))
            else:
                ok(ar)

And then overrides the default `submit_insert` action (either on the
Model or on a Table) with an instance of this class::

  class Client(dd.model):
      ...
      submit_insert = SubmitInsertClient()



An unexpected subtlety was that `SubmitInsertClient`, like every
submit_insert action must set `data_record`. And this must be in the
callback request ("ar2"), not in the original action request "ar".
But the callback request until now was just a BaseRequest, without
methods like `create_instance` (i.e. the methods to create an instance
and to fill `data_record`).  So the callback request (created by
:meth:`lino.core.kernel.Kernel.run_callback`) had to become a more
close clone of the original request.

Checkin after midnight and without thorough testing. But 

TODO:

During testing I discovered a bug which was already there for some
time: the "Must read eID card" action link in `newcomers.NewClients`
doesn't work. It causes an :ref:`ise`::

  ParameterStore of LayoutHandle for ParamsLayout on pcsw.Clients expected a list of 12 values, but got [u'21.03.2014', u'false', u'false', u'']

This is because the action is being called using pcsw/Clients instead
of pcsw/NewClients as URI.

