=======================
Tuesday, April 22, 2014
=======================

Working on :doc:`/tickets/93`.

"Must read eID card" action in `newcomers.NewClients` 
------------------------------------------------------

Fixed the bug (discovered yesterday) on the "Must read eID card"
action link in `newcomers.NewClients`.

This was indeed because the action is being called using pcsw/Clients
instead of pcsw/NewClients as URI.

The action link is generated (by the `eid_info` virtual field defined
on :class:`BeIdCardHolder <lino.modlib.beid.mixins.BeIdCardHolder>`)
using the following code::

  msg = _("Must read eID card!")
  ar.instance_action_button(self.read_beid, msg, icon_name=None)

The culprit was
:meth:`lino.modlib.extjs.ext_renderer.ExtRenderer.action_call_on_instance`
who ignored that `ba.actor` may differ from `ar.actor` when defined on
a different actor.


global name 'Answers' is not defined
------------------------------------

Also fixed a bug in :mod:`lino.modlib.polls` which caused an
:ref:`ise` "global name 'Answers' is not defined" in :ref:`polly` when
a Response was being displayed.  Note that :ref:`polly` is still not
usable after adding support for multiple choices.  The
`select_by_response` action doesn't yet work.

Preventing duplicate person records
-----------------------------------

Cool: Yesterday I just used a dummy example of a possible callback
confirmation: "Is that true? Your name is 'Foo'?" Now I wrote the real
action. And it was really easy::

    qs = dedupe.SimilarPersons.find_similar_instances(obj)
    if qs.count() > 0:
        msg = _(
            "There are %d clients with similar name:") % qs.count()
        for other in qs[:4]:
            msg += '<br/>' + unicode(other)
        msg += '<br/>' + _("Are you sure you want to create a new "
                           "client named %s?") % obj.get_full_name()
        ar.confirm(ok, msg)

I also optimized in our
:meth:`find_similar_instances <lino.modlib.dedupe.models.SimilarPersons.find_similar_instances>` method, which continues to be rather simplistic.

Added test cases in :ref:`welfare.tested.pcsw`.

Started to try to get the welfare test suite repaired.  But after some
hours I decided that for the moment this would be inefficient because
many tests are still going to change.

Multiple addresses per Client
-----------------------------

Started to work on the next item of :doc:`/tickets/93`: 
multiple client addresses.

It is the first time that we want SubmitInsert to *not* switch to
detail window.

It seems that we need a concept of "edit mode", that is, a new url
parameter to add to the AJAX call, so that the action can know whether
it was called from a grid or from a detail.
