=======================
Tuesday, April 29, 2014
=======================

Formatting IBAN numbers
-----------------------

Lino now renders IBAN numbers as it should:
"EE87 2200 2210 1206 7904" instead of "EE872200221012067904".

The first challenge was a decision: should we store the spaces in the
database or not?  My current answer is: we don't store the spaces, we
use a renderer to insert them dynamically.

This is more or less compatible to `django-iban
<https://github.com/benkonrath/django-iban>`_ who currently just
accepts spaces and removes them forever (but does not render them
formatted).

The second challenge was how to implement this.  The `commit
<https://github.com/lsaffre/lino/commit/3748768ed9d8b3e0f4e616d4378562cb7d787078>`_
shows what I did.  I made changes in :mod:`lino.modlib.iban.fields`
and :srcref:`/lino/modlib/iban/config/uppercasetextfield.js` (those in
:mod:`lino.ui.elems` are rather cosmetic).  Thanks to `How to insert
space every 4 characters for IBAN registering?
<http://stackoverflow.com/questions/17260238/how-to-insert-space-every-4-characters-for-iban-registering>`_
asked in March 2014 by `Jackyto
<http://stackoverflow.com/users/2354926/jackyto>`_ and answered by
`David Thomas <http://stackoverflow.com/users/82548/david-thomas>`_

The current solution has some drawbacks:

- Works only in a grid (IBAN fields in a Detail window are not
  formatted. Which is not a problem since we currently have no
  occurence of this case).
- Pressing F2 to start editing causes the formatting to disappear
  (waiting for user feedback on this).
- We will also need a renderer for plain HTML and plain text.


ParameterStore on pcsw.Clients expects a list of 12 values but got 16
---------------------------------------------------------------------

I discovered an urgent bug:

- Wenn ich eine Klientenliste über ein RequestField (von
  UsersWithClients aus) öffne und dort auf einem Klienten
  doppelklicke, kriege ich::

    Exception
    ParameterStore of LayoutHandle for ParamsLayout on pcsw.Clients expected a list of 12 values, but got [u'30', u'200096', u'', u'29.04.2014', u'29.04.2014', u'', u'', u'', u'', u'', u'false', u'', u'', u'1', u'false', u'false']

    TRACEBACK:
    File "/usr/local/django/testlino/env/lib/python2.6/site-packages/django/core/handlers/base.py", line 114, in get_response
    (...)
    File "/home/lsaffre/repositories/lino/lino/core/requests.py", line 822, in __init__
    request))
    File "/home/lsaffre/repositories/lino/lino/ui/store.py", line 949, in parse_params
    self, len(self.param_fields), pv))


Worked several hours on it, without success until now.  I encapsulated
some code into `install_layout` in order to use the same logic for
`params_layout` where this was not yet done. But that was not the reason.

Why does a GET to ``/api/integ/Clients/177`` use the ParameterStore
defined on `pcsw.Clients`!?  Yes, `integ.Clients` inherits from
`pcsw.Clients`, but it even specifies its own `parameters` and
`params_layout`, so my `install_layout` above was of course useless.



Another, less urgent bug:


- IBAN numbers don't seem to get validated.

