=========================
Wednesday, April 30, 2014
=========================


Upgrading Ubuntu from 13.10 to 14.04 LTS
----------------------------------------

Hm... I tried once more to upgrade from Ubuntu 13.10 to 14.04 LTS,
this time I also consulted pages at
`ubuntu.com <http://www.ubuntu.com/download/desktop/upgrade>`_
and `tecmint.com <http://www.tecmint.com/upgrade-ubuntu-to-14-04/>`_.

Again no success.  I tried several variants of update-manager::

  $ update-manager
  $ update-manager -c
  $ update-manager -d

The result is always the same, it says: "The software on your computer
is up to date" *without* the expected addition "However, Ubuntu 14.04
is now available and you have 13.10", and consequently without any
Upgrade button.

Here is the content of my `/etc/apt/sources` (without comments)::

    deb http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu saucy main restricted
    deb-src http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu saucy main restricted

    deb http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu saucy universe
    deb-src http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu saucy universe

    deb http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu saucy multiverse
    deb-src http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu saucy multiverse

    deb http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu saucy-security main restricted
    deb-src http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu saucy-security main restricted
    deb http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu saucy-security universe
    deb-src http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu saucy-security universe
    deb http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu saucy-security multiverse
    deb-src http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu saucy-security multiverse

    deb http://archive.canonical.com/ubuntu saucy partner
    deb-src http://archive.canonical.com/ubuntu saucy partner

    ## This software is not part of Ubuntu, but is offered by third-party
    ## developers who want to ship their latest software.
    deb http://extras.ubuntu.com/ubuntu saucy main
    deb-src http://extras.ubuntu.com/ubuntu saucy main

    deb http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu saucy-updates restricted main multiverse universe


I am giving up for now. If somebody sees an explanation, please
tell me.


TODO
----

- IBAN numbers don't seem to get validated.

- The Insert window of an Upload has a layout problem.  I guess that
  the `Lino.FileUploadField` doesn't collaborate well with the auto
  height.

- Inserting in UploadsByClient sets the `owner` but not the `client`.

DONE
----

- Sometimes I got "Sorry, dialog action without base_params.mk" when
  invoking CreateHousehold from the action link in MembersByPerson
  summary panel.

  There was a typo in `linoweb.js`::

    if (this.base_params) { this.base_params.mk; }

  Had to be::

    if (this.base_params) { pk = this.base_params.mk; }

  But it was even more subtle. The API for generating action buttons
  is really not yet stable. But at least I start to test it in 
  :ref:`welfare.tested.integ`.


- Worked on the :meth:`UploadsByController.get_slave_summary
  <lino.modlib.uploads.models.UploadsByController.get_slave_summary>`
  method. This will make our "quick upload buttons" needless! This is
  also going to stabilize the API for rendering action buttons.

  After the lessons I had yesterday and today, I want to work on this
  in a tested document. First I must add some demo data to
  `uploads.Upload`.

- `uploads.UploadType` is again a :class:`BabelNamed
  <north.dbutils.dbutils_babel.BabelNamed>`.

