====================
Tuesday, May 6, 2014
====================

Finished the actions API
------------------------

One detail fixed:

- open a GridPanel, e.g. http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/countries/Places
- Double-click on a row to open the detail window
-  change some value and click the Save button 
- close the detail window
- note that your change does not yet appear in the grid
- click on the close button of the grid panel window
- note that the window doesn't seem to close, but now it refreshes and shows your change.
- Now I must click twice on the close button of the GridPanel in order
  to have it disappear

Explanation was that the case of SubmitDetail was not yet correctly
handled.

Checkin

Discovered and fixed another little bug after yesterday's changes:
editing in a gridpanel always caused the detail window to open.

The `PrintTableAction` group was not being used at all. Fixed.

Checkin.

Chat with Joe
-------------

Inspired by a chat with Joe, I added a new package
:mod:`lino.modlib.appypod` and removed these actions from
:mod:`lino.core.tables`.  Because such things should be optional.

Oops, and then I started to write a two new tested tutorials:

- :ref:`dev.vtables` is based on a non-tested example that was in the
  docstring of :mod:`lino.core.tables`

- `dev.tables` 

I noticed that none of the tutorials was being tested because Django's
test discovery had changed in 1.6. Added a file test.py for each of
them.

zip_code and city
-----------------

In Belgium we have usually one city per zip_code. Users are used to
automatically see "Eupen" when they enter "4700", or "4700" when they
enter "Eupen". So these two fields must become "active".

Since these fields are defined on a model mixin and I want them to be
active "everywhere", I added
:attr:`lino.core.model.Model.active_fields` (similar to
:attr:`hidden_columns <lino.core.model.Model.hidden_columns>`) and
made it support the "space-separated list of names in one string"
format as for `column_names`, `hidden_columns`.

Then I discovered a little problem: active fields shoul not be used in
an Insert window. When I add an address in AdressesByPartner, the
InsertWindow gets closed as soon as I select a city.  To be
meditated...
