=====================
Thursday, May 8, 2014
=====================

Bereit zur nächsten Baustellenbesichtigung
------------------------------------------

I understood that :ref:`welfare` needs both apps (
:mod:`households <lino.modlib.households>` **and**
:mod:`humanlinks <lino.modlib.humanlinks>`).

:mod:`lino.modlib.humanlinks.models.LinksByHuman` is cool because it
displays both "parent" and "child" links, without needing an
artificial duplication of every PLP record as was needed in TIM.

It also shows how cool the :meth:`lino.core.actors.Actor.get_slave_summary`
method is.

New module :mod:`lino.modlib.humanlinks.fixtures.demo`.

Adapted :mod:`lino_welfare.scripts.load_plp` once more.

Release and data migration on testlino.

@Gerd: :doc:`/tickets/93` is ready for a next visit.


AttributeError: 'DummyField' object has no attribute 'name'
-----------------------------------------------------------

:mod:`lino.projects.polly` is broken, it says the above error
message. But the message gives no information about where the real bug
sits.

Modified :func:`dd.fields_list` and the docstring of
:class:`dd.DummyField`.

The new API reference
---------------------

Oops, while writing the above sentence I stumbled over the simple
solution to a deep problem which I had with documenting Lino: I tried
to get it documented using docstrings and Sphinx's apidoc tool. That
was a mistake. I started a new documnt :doc:`/dev/api` which seems to
bring a little revolution into the Lino documentation. It is far from
being finished, but now I see hope to get Lino documentation so that
others can use it.

For example I can now easily talk in this blog about central concepts
like 
:class:`ad.Site`, 
:class:`ad.Plugin`, 
:class:`dd.Actor`, 
:class:`dd.Action`, 
:class:`dd.fields_list`, 
:class:`dd.FormLayout`,
but also about 
:class:`rt.TableRequest` or 
:class:`ml.contacts.Partner`.

