=====================
Tuesday, May 13, 2014
=====================

Worked on Uploads:

- Fixed: Inserting in UploadsByClient sets the `owner` but not the `client`.
- `CreateRow` and `SubmitInsert` may not set the `rows` attribute of
  the AJAX response when it is a `file upload
  <https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/topics/http/file-uploads/>`_. Because
  can contain complex strings which cause decoding problems on the
  client when responding to a file upload.

- The summary panel of uploads was not satisfying. Maybe now.

- Overriding the `detail_layout` of `uploads.Uploads` causes subtle
  problems. I cannot simply say ``Uploads.detail_layout = "..."`` in
  :mod:`lino_welfare.modlib.uploads.models` because the
  `detail_layout` attribute has already been inherited to subclasses
  of `uploads.Uploads`.  I'll have to change something in the kernel
  startup some day: resolve layouts a bit later in a separate loop.
  Currently a visible consequence is that double-clicking on a row in
  a grid view of some subclass of Uploads shows the wrong layout.

- 'AidType' object has no attribute 'get_detail_action'

- Added a new test case "Paul Frisch" in :ref:`welfare.tested.integ`.


Nach Baustellenbesichtigung mit Gerd habe ich die folgenden neuen
Ideen gemacht:

- Klientenkontakte kommt nach Begleitung zurück (wo es bisher war)
- Adressen nur noch als action link im info_panel
- Reiter "Kontakte" umbenennen nach "Beziehungen". 
- Im Reiter "Beziehungen" ein neues Panel "Zusammenfassung Beziehungen
  der letzten Tx25".
- Eine coole Idee war auch `Human.format_family_member`
 
Es gibt noch ein fieses Problem:

Createattestation auf Client erstellt einen Auszug und zweigt ihn
an... aber man kann die Auszugsart nicht auswählen. Weil owner ein
GenericForeignKey ist, und Lino kriegtq das noch nicht hin als
Parameter eines choosers.


