=======================
Wednesday, May 14, 2014
=======================

Tried to solve :doc:`/tickets/97`.  A real solution would require
changes in `store.py` and `elems.py`, take much more time than I
currently have and would bring unstability.

I finally ended up by simply extending the workaround: the `GFK_HACK`
regular expression used by
:class:`lino.utils.instantiator.GenericForeignKeyConverter` didn't
work when the value had been rendered by a request with a known
requesting panel.

The "Manage addresses" button is cool, but (1) it should be next to
the address, not after the `eid_info`. And (2) we want it for every
site where :mod:`lino.modlib.addresses` is installed. So I moved this
code from :mod:`lino_welfare.modlib.pcsw` to
:mod:`lino.modlib.contacts`.

The test suite had some minor failures.

Deleting a primary address now will clear the address fields of the
partner.


First session with Taavi
------------------------

Getting Lino development version to run on Windows.

- The first thing he did was :ref:`lino.dev.install`.
  Main difficulties where pip itself, pycrypto and pylibtidy. The
  latter produced an `OSError: Could not libtidy using any of these
  names:
  libtidy,libtidy.so,libtidy-0.99.so.0,cygtidy-0-99-0,tidylib,libtidy.dylib,tidy`
  traceback.

- The Lino test suite then failed because
  :class:`atelier.utils.SubProcessParent` had ``from __future__ import
  unicode_literals``, which caused a traceback ``TypeError:
  environment can only contain strings`` in the Python :mod:`subprocess`
  module.

- Updated :ref:`lino.tutorial.polls`.

- :mod:`lino.modlib.humanlinks` requires :class:`ml.contacts.Person`
  to be :class:`lino.mixins.human.Born`.  But it wasn't. Because at
  some moment I thought that the default :class:`ml.contacts.Person`
  should be minimal.  But meanwhile I'd say that indeed most contact
  managers have a birth date for their persons.

- Taavi's first Lino application will have 3 models: 
  Song, Concert and Performance


Continued on  :doc:`/tickets/93`
--------------------------------

- The DELETE key failed to invoke the DeleteSelected action (after
  converting this to a customizable action). Now it works again. And
  Lino is now able for the first time to handle custom hotkey
  definitions using :meth:`Lino.GridPanel.handle_key_event`.  The
  system is not yet stable and cannot yet handle modifiers, but I am
  glad that a beginning is finally there.

- The IBAN number of a :class:`ml.sepa.Account` was indeed not
  validated. Simply because I forgot to call :func:`super` in its
  :meth:`dd.Model.full_clean` method.
