====================
Monday, May 26, 2014
====================

Miscellaneous

- Added Dolibarr to :doc:`/about/compared`. 

- Sigh! There's still much to do in the documentation!

- The date of one event on `vor-cycling.be
  <http://www.vor-cycling.be/>` had changed


The online demo of :ref:`welfare` was broken after a recent upgrade.
This took me some time.  Problems that come when the ``import`` of
some part of a Django project fails are sometimes difficult to track
because Django adds some magic there.

I moved :class:`ml.excerpts.Certifiable` to a separate module
:mod:`lino.modlib.excerpts.mixins` because I believed that this was the
reason. 

But the reason was (as usual) more stupid than expected: the local
:xfile:`settings.py` file still referred to
``lino_welfare.settings.eupen`` settings. And these still existed as
`.pyc` files.  Because I don't automatically tidy up after a pull.
Now I enhanced my local `pull` command to do a ``find -name
'*.pyc' -exec rm {} +`` after each pull::

    set -e

    function pull_here() {
      git pull
      find -name '*.pyc' -exec rm {} +
    }

    cd /home/luc/repositories/davlink ; pull_here
    cd /home/luc/repositories/eidreader ; pull_here

    cd /home/luc/repositories/atelier ; pull_here
    cd /home/luc/repositories/djangosite ; pull_here
    cd /home/luc/repositories/north ; pull_here
    cd /home/luc/repositories/lino ; pull_here

    cd /home/luc/repositories/lino-welfare ; pull_here
    cd /home/luc/repositories/lino-patrols ; pull_here
    cd /home/luc/repositories/lino-faggio ; pull_here
    cd /home/luc/repositories/lino-logos ; pull_here
    cd /home/luc/repositories/cosi ; pull_here



Ausdruck Lebenslauf Martha Mustermann
-------------------------------------

201405-26 10:11:35 WARNING ajax : AjaxExceptionResponse:
MultipleObjectsReturned
get() returned more than one Excerpt -- it returned 3!

TRACEBACK:
  File "/usr/local/django/testlino/env/lib/python2.6/site-packages/django/core/handlers/base.py", line 114, in get_response
    response = wrapped_callback(request, *callback_args, **callback_kwargs)
  File "/usr/local/django/testlino/env/lib/python2.6/site-packages/django/views/generic/base.py", line 69, in view
    return self.dispatch(request, *args, **kwargs)
  File "/usr/local/django/testlino/env/lib/python2.6/site-packages/django/views/generic/base.py", line 87, in dispatch
    return handler(request, *args, **kwargs)
  File "/home/lsaffre/repositories/lino/lino/modlib/extjs/views.py", line 562, in get
    return settings.SITE.ui.run_action(ar)
  File "/home/lsaffre/repositories/lino/lino/core/kernel.py", line 554, in run_action
    ar.bound_action.action.run_from_ui(ar)
  File "/home/lsaffre/repositories/lino/lino/modlib/excerpts/models.py", line 232, in run_from_ui
    owner_type=ContentType.objects.get_for_model(obj.__class__))
  File "/usr/local/django/testlino/env/lib/python2.6/site-packages/django/db/models/manager.py", line 151, in get
    return self.get_queryset().get(*args, **kwargs)
  File "/usr/local/django/testlino/env/lib/python2.6/site-packages/django/db/models/query.py", line 310, in get
    (self.model._meta.object_name, num))

Adresse auf "leer" setzen
-------------------------

- Primäradresse abklicken oder löschen: keine Aktualisierung

Lino soll die Adresse des Partners auch dann auf leer setzen, wenn man
das "Primär" der primären Adresse abschaltet. Wenn man die primäre
Adresse löscht

Diverse Layout-Änderungen in Clientdetail
------------------------------------------


Bugs fixed.

- Reiter Hilfen: Zivilstand, Geburtsland- und Ort

Jetzt wieder im Reiter "Person".

- Fusionieren Reiter Hilfe und Gesundheit?

Voilà. Ist es jetzt besser?

- Reiter Historie: Ereignisse/Notizen: Datum, Zeit kleiner, Betreff größer

Voilà. :class:`ml.notes.NotesByProject`


Java performance
----------------

WARNING: key deployment.system.cachedir has no value, setting to default value
