=====================
Tuesday, May 27, 2014
=====================


Preparing for :doc:`/tickets/104`:
Added new fields does_asd and does_integ to `pcsw.CoachingType`.

Discovered a Javascript bug: double clicking in a grid of a table with
a detail_layout and an insert_layout did not switch to detail window
after closing the insert window.


commit


Discovered and fixed an oddness: `farest_future` ("Don't generate
automatic events past that date.") was a database field in
`SiteConfig` while :attr:`ad.Site.ignore_dates_before` was a Site
class attribute. They should be both in the same place. And since
normal web interface users should not need to worry about these
parameters, we remove `farest_future` from `SiteConfig` and replace it
by a new attribute :attr:`ad.Site.ignore_dates_after`.

commit

I understood that CreateExcerpt on a non certifying ExcerptType should
**not** reuse the last excerpt if one exists.

Last little details in :mod:`lino_welfare.migrate`: 

- ignore bank account fields containing just a ":".
- ignore field `SiteConfig.farest_future`


Java sucks (continued)
----------------------

Each reload of a page which includes :ref:`davlink` or
:ref:`eidreader` takes much time. Appearently the browser does some
lookup to verify the jar signature. The Java console says (among many
other things)::

  WARNING: key deployment.system.cachedir has no value, setting to default value

I read `this
<http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/technotes/guides/jweb/jcp/properties.html>`_
and then edited my :file:`~/.java/deployment/deployment.properties`
file, adding this line::

  deployment.system.cachedir=/home/luc/.java/deployment/cache/selfmade
  deployment.user.cachedir=/home/luc/.java/deployment/cache/selfmade

And I created the directory `/home/luc/.java/deployment/cache/selfmade`.

Seems to have no effect.

Even worse, here is another error which occurs only on a Windows machine::

  Java-Plug-in 10.55.2.13
  JRE-Version verwenden 1.7.0_55-b13 Java HotSpot(TM) Client VM
  (...)
  liveconnect: Security Exception: LiveConnect (JavaScript) blocked due
  to security settings.

I **maybe** solved this at least for davlink by generating (in
:mod:`lino.modlib.davlink`) a `davlink.jnlp` file and using a
`jnlp_href` parameter in the ``<applet>`` tag. Lino also currently
uses a self-signed `DavLink.jar`. I'd be glad if this works in an
Intranet where a GlobalSign certificate is useless.

If it works, I'd do the same for :ref:`eidreader`.


Upgrading a production server
-----------------------------

Today I upgraded the :ref:`welfare` production server in Eupen. This
version had been running there since 20131007, i.e. for more than 8
months.  

Such a production upgrade is still a rather stressing job, but -with
the danger of repeating myself- I summarize my evening: Lino is really
cool!

For example I discovered the folowing problem after the migration:

- Bestehende Ausdrucke von VSEs und Konventionen sind nicht sichtbar
  in der Historie des Klienten.

Which I solved simply by a script to be run using the :manage:`run` command::

    from lino.runtime import *
    for M in (isip.Contract, jobs.Contract):
      for obj in M.objects.all():
        ex = obj.printed_by
        if ex is not None and ex.project_id is None:
            print obj
            ex.project = obj.client
            ex.full_clean()
            ex.save()


