=======================
Wednesday, May 28, 2014
=======================

Another contribution
--------------------

Joe sent two pull requests for :mod:`export_excel
<lino.modlib.export_excel>` and :mod:`print_pisa
<lino.modlib.print_pisa>`.  Thank you, Joe!  I beg your pardon that I
still did not find time to have a closer look at them.
:mod:`export_excel <lino.modlib.export_excel>` would probably be of
immediate benefit.

(See also `Removed the "Export to .csv" button`_ later on this page.)


Thoughts about versioning and release process
---------------------------------------------

Yesterday I made an upgrade on a :ref:`welfare` production server,
including data migration.  So before doing "anything else" I should
bump certain version numbers and tag the repositories.

- :ref:`welfare` needs a new version number (must change from version
  1.1.12 to 1.1.13) because North database migration works using the
  application's version number.  (Which by the way is an important
  difference with South or the coming Django migration system, who use
  an individual "version" counters for every app.)

- :ref:`lino`, :ref:`north` and :ref:`site` need a new version number
  because they might have influence on the :ref:`welfare` database
  structure, and thus :ref:`welfare` needs to be able to specify "I
  want *this* version of lino, of north and/or of djangosite".


- The "anything else" above is not absolute.  We are talking about
  changes in trunk/master of :mod:`djangosite`, :mod:`north`,
  :mod:`lino` and :mod:`lino_welfare` itself.  But for example
  :ref:`atelier`, :ref:`davlink` and :ref:`eidreader` are special
  because they have no influence on the database.

- Changing the version number is itself easy thanks to :ref:`atelier`:
  I just need to change the :xfile:`project_info.py` file, which
  currently contains::

    SETUP_INFO = dict(
        name='lino-welfare',
        version='1.1.12',  # not yet released
        install_requires=['lino', 'suds', 'vobject', 'django-iban'],
        ...

But before actually doing this, I must "release" the current versions.

In fact I don't need to release them officially on PyPI right now. As
long as nobody asks for a new released version, I can save time by
skipping this step. But I must be ready to do it retroactively some
day in the future.

So I should tag the current state of the involved repositories.  To
get back into this, I needed to read the Git docs about `Tagging
<http://git-scm.com/book/en/Git-Basics-Tagging>`_

The author of `Git Tag Does the Wrong Thing by Default
<http://www.rockstarprogrammer.org/post/2008/oct/16/git-tag-does-wrong-thing-default/>`_
claims that I should not use lightweight tags.  And `Why should I care
about lightweight vs. annotated tags?
<http://stackoverflow.com/questions/4971746/why-should-i-care-about-lightweight-vs-annotated-tags>`_
explains it more in detail.

`AlBlue 20110426
<http://alblue.bandlem.com/2011/04/git-tip-of-week-tags.html>`_ writes
another interesting must-know about tags:

    A tag is like a branch, in that it identifies a specific commit with a
    descriptive label.  
    
    What’s the difference between tags and branches?  The workspace is
    (almost always) associated with a branch, called ``master`` by
    default. When it is, a commit will automatically update the
    ``master`` reference to point to that new commit; in other words,
    *branches are mutable references*.

    A tag, on the other hand, is created to point to a specific commit and
    thereafter does not change, even if the branch moves on. In other
    words, *tags are immutable references*.

So I now made an annotated tag on each project::

  $ go site
  $ git tag -a v0.1.8 -m v0.1.8
  $ git push origin v0.1.8

  $ go north
  $ git tag -a v0.1.7 -m v0.1.7
  $ git push origin v0.1.7

  $ go lino
  $ git tag -a v1.6.13 -m v1.6.13
  $ git push origin v1.6.13

  $ go welfare
  $ git tag -a v1.1.12 -m v1.1.12
  $ git push origin v1.1.12

Each ``git push origin`` commands gave output similar to this::
    
    $ git push origin v0.1.7
    Counting objects: 1, done.
    Writing objects: 100% (1/1), 160 bytes | 0 bytes/s, done.
    Total 1 (delta 0), reused 0 (delta 0)
    To git@github.com:lsaffre/north.git
     * [new tag]         v0.1.7 -> v0.1.7
    

The next step then was to increment the version numbers. 
Note the :fab:`esi` command.
For example in :ref:`welfare`::
    
    $ go welfare
    $ fab esi
    
And change the file to::    

    SETUP_INFO = dict(
        name='lino-welfare',
        version='1.1.13',
        install_requires=['lino', 'suds', 'vobject', 'django-iban'],
        ...

    
Oops, then I noticed that I probably made a little mistake. Released
versions should specify versions in their `install_requires`. So in
fact *before* setting the tags I should have done something like::

    SETUP_INFO = dict(
        name='lino-welfare',
        version='1.1.12',
        install_requires=['lino==1.6.12', 'suds', 'vobject', 'django-iban'],
        ...

And then, afterwards *remove* the version specificier (``==1.6.12``)
again because it can be disturbing in development versions.  Is that
true?

If you use Git and followed until here, please tell me:

- Did I get it right?

Another thing is to make this process more automatic. That's for later.


Removed the "Export to .csv" button
-----------------------------------

I finally took the time to have a look at Joe's work.  This is really
cool, Joe!  

Since this "clone" works much better than the "original", and since it
is useless to have both, and since the original was not removable
because still old-style coding, I simply **removed the original**.

This means that existing applications should include
:mod:`lino.modlib.export_excel` to their
:meth:`ad.Site.get_installed_apps` method.

I changed the action's label from "To Excel" to "Export to .xls"
because it doesn't require any given proprietary produce, it works
with every office application that can read :file:`.xls` files.

I'd like to rename the app from "export_excel" to "export_xls" or
maybe even simply "xls". Any comments to this?
