======================
Thursday, May 29, 2014
======================

Detail window doesn't open after insert in slave table
------------------------------------------------------

After yesterdays production upgrade, Gerd reported the following
problem report (original formulation by an end-user):

    Wenn man eine Notiz eingibt, kann man nur noch erstellen. Und nicht
    mehr erstellen und bearbeiten.  Praktisch müssen wir es also erstellen
    und dann wieder öffnen bevor wir was im Inhalt eintragen können.
    Lästig...

This was a genuine bug. It is again our well-known situation after a
:class:`dd.SubmitInsert` action.  This action calls
:meth:`ar.goto_instance <rt.ar.goto_instance>` (to display
the new record) and :meth:`ar.close_window
<rt.ar.close_window>` (to close the :term:`insert window`).

:js:func:`Lino.handle_action_result` uses a variable `panel` for "the
current panel".  Ater closing a window, `panel` points to the main
item of the previous window.  We got already that far, but here we had
the case of an insert window that has been invoked by double-clicking
on the phantom row of a slave table in a detail window. This wasn't
yet handled correctly. In that case we want `panel` to become the
*slave table grid panel* who opened the :term:`insert window`, and not
the main panel of the master's :term:`detail window`.  That's why
:js:func:`Lino.close_window` now returns the `requesting_panel` of the
window which was closed.


More about tagging
------------------

This is a first bug in Lino 1.6.13, and I am tempted to change the
``v1.6.13`` tag because:

- it has not yet been officially released on PyPI
- I can update Gerd's production site without a need for data migration.

One can say that Gerd's production site serves as guinea pig, and that
my first ``v1.6.13`` tag should rather have been ``v1.6.13rc1``.

Simply overwriting the existing tag doesn't work::

  $ git tag -a v1.6.13 -m "after first bugfix"
  fatal: tag 'v1.6.13' already exists

So I try by deleting it first::

  $ git tag -d v1.6.13
  Deleted tag 'v1.6.13' (was ce2ebd3)
  $ git tag -a v1.6.13 -m "after first bugfix"

But oops, when I try to push my changed vision of what ``v1.6.13``
should mean, I get::

  $ git push origin v1.6.13
  To git@github.com:lsaffre/lino.git
   ! [rejected]        v1.6.13 -> v1.6.13 (already exists)
  error: failed to push some refs to 'git@github.com:lsaffre/lino.git'
  hint: Updates were rejected because the tag already exists in the remote.

It seems that we must accept the fact that ``v1.6.13`` will always be
a buggy version because we cannot change an annotated tag once it has
been published.  

So I undo my attempt::

  $ git tag -d v1.6.13
  Deleted tag 'v1.6.13' (was bebb5c5)

  $ git pull origin v1.6.13
  From github.com:lsaffre/lino
   * tag               v1.6.13    -> FETCH_HEAD
  Already up-to-date.


Using the GPL for documentation
-------------------------------

I read on http://www.gnu.org/licenses/licenses.en.html:

    Documentation for free software should be free documentation, so that
    people can redistribute it and improve it along with the software it
    describes. To make it free documentation, you need to release it
    under a free documentation license. We normally use the GNU Free
    Documentation License (GNU FDL), but occasionally we use other free
    documentation licenses.
    
And then asked on <fsfe-de@fsfeurope.org>:

    Heißt das, dass meine Verfahrensweise nicht ganz korrekt ist? Ist meine
    Dokumentation nicht automatisch auch frei, wenn sie unter der GPL steht?
    Was kann ich tun, damit es korrekt ist?

Answer is: don't worry. The GPL is okay for documentation, and the
`FDL <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GNU_Free_Documentation_License>`_
has numerous problems.


Online demos updated
--------------------

I made a pull and an initdb on the :ref:`demos`.

For example the :ref:`cosi` demo (at http://demo4.lino-framework.org/)
now shows the cool new :mod:`lino.moxlib.export_excel` module
contributed by Joe: just open some table and click on the Excel icon
in the button toolbar.

Ta-daa, I finally worked on
:class:`lino.utils.ajax.AjaxExceptionResponse` which had the problem of
working only when :setting:`DEBUG` was true. Yes, on a production
server it is not wise to publish the traceback, but our nice HTML
formatted "Congratulations, you found a problem" page was not the
right answer to an AJAX call.

This helped me to fix a bug which I introduced myself into Joe's code.



How to reach the host machine from a virtual client
---------------------------------------------------

Worked on :doc:`/tickets/106`. 

Trying to reproduce it myself.  In my case the problematic client is
under Windows in a VirtualBox.

I had the problem that I didnt figure out myself how to have that
virtual machine connect to the development server running on my host.
Pointing the browser in that virtual machine to http://127.0.0.1:8000
did not get there.

Thanks here to `Naftuli Tzvi Kay
<http://superuser.com/users/55611/naftuli-tzvi-kay>`_ who asked
exactly my question in Juli 2011 and then answered it himself the next
day:

    Q: I'd essentially like to access my host computer from the guest in
    VirtualBox. Is there an IP address given for my host which I can
    use from the guest? Are there extra steps required to set this up?
    I'd like to access my host's Apache, FTP, and SSH services.

    A: In the default setup, you should be able to reach your host
    through your default gateway, in my case 10.0.2.2. You can easily
    determine this IP address in Windows via ipconfig. (...)
    
    (Source: `Connect to the host machine from a VirtualBox guest OS? <http://superuser.com/questions/310697/connect-to-the-host-machine-from-a-virtualbox-guest-os>`_)

    
Aha. The `default gateway
<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Default_gateway>`_ on my virtual client
machine is::

    C:\Documents and Settings\Luc Saffre>ipconfig

    Windows IP Configuration

    Ethernet adapter Local Area Connection 3:

            Connection-specific DNS Suffix  . : lan
            IP Address. . . . . . . . . . . . : 192.168.1.65
            Subnet Mask . . . . . . . . . . . : 255.255.0.0
            Default Gateway . . . . . . . . . : 192.168.0.2

    
So on my virtual browser, instead of pointing it to
http://127.0.0.1:8000 I must point it to:
    
  http://192.168.0.2:8000

Finally! One long lasting problem solved.

Now the next problem is: I still can't reproduce it! Both :ref:`davlink`
and :ref:`eidreader` work perfectly under Windows XP using Oracle Java::

  Java Plug-in 10.60.2.19
  Using JRE version 1.7.0_60-b19 Java HotSpot(TM) Client VM

