=====================
Tuesday, June 3, 2014
=====================

Worked on :ref:`cosi`. Steve reported the problem that double-click on
the phantom row of the "Unregistered invoices" table opens a dialog
window to create a new invoice, but then says "journal may not be
null".

I simply needed to add a journal field to the insert_layout used in
that table.  But then I stumbled over a strange phenomen.  The chooser
for that journal field should of couse show only invoice
journals. Here is how I did that::

    @dd.chooser()
    def journal_choices(cls):
        vt = VoucherTypes.get_by_value(dd.full_model_name(cls))
        qs = Journal.objects.filter(voucher_type=vt)
        return qs

But it doesn't work...

... because the current implementation of choosers is a bit
strange. The chooser decorator does not convert the function to a
Chooser instance, it just adds the chooser options as attributes to
the callable. Chooser instances are instantiated only later, in
`actions.install_choosers`. And they are stored *per field*. This is
the reason for our problem: since Voucher is an MTI child, there is
only one field instance for all models. And though each model causes
the instantiation of a Chooser, they all are then stored to
`_lino_chooser` attribute of the same field, thus only the last
instance survives.  It seems that I can optimize that.

Milton posted a `first ticket
<https://github.com/lsaffre/lino-cosi/issues/1>`_ in :ref:`cosi`, and
I answered. Most work was to update the tutorials and beginner's docs
which had indeed some obsolete parts. I hope that they are more clear
now.

The :fab:`docs` fab command failed when ``SETUP_INFO['description']``
contained non-ASCII text.
