=======================
Wednesday, June 4, 2014
=======================

Documentation
-------------

Motivated by the fact that Milton is learning Lino, I continued to
work in the documentation. 

The Lino test suite failed because I had added ``from __future__
import unicode_literals`` to the :xfile:`project_info.py`.

Added new directive :rst:dir:`command` with corresponding role
:rst:role:`cmd`. This replaces the now obsolete 
``:fab:`` role and the ``:fab_command:`` directive.

.. default-domain:: rst

Removed my self-made ``directive`` and ``role`` directives and roles
and changed existing docs to use their built-in equivalents (i.e. the
`rst
<http://sphinx-doc.org/domains.html?highlight=directive#the-restructuredtext-domain>`_
domain which I discovered only recently). The following example which
I wrote in the documentation of them remains pedagogically useful::

  The :role:`role` *role* inserts a *reference to* a
  role definition which is defined somewhere else using the
  :dir:`role` *directive*.

  The :role:`dir` *role* inserts a *reference to* a
  directive definition which is defined somewhere else using the
  :dir:`directive` *directive*.

Result:

  The :role:`role` *role* inserts a *reference to* a
  role definition which is defined somewhere else using the
  :dir:`role` *directive*.

  The :role:`dir` *role* inserts a *reference to* a
  directive definition which is defined somewhere else using the
  :dir:`directive` *directive*.


Moved the content of :ref:`lino.tutorial.quickstart`
to a new tutorial :ref:`lino.tutorial.hello`.

.. default-domain:: py

Creating invoices from a partner
--------------------------------

Continued to work in :ref:`cosi` (or
:mod:`lino.modlib.ledger` to be precise).

:class:`ml.ledger.InvoicesByPartner` now has a summary pane with an
action link to create an invoice.

But this is still not yet usable because it creates only incoming
invoices (:class:`ml.ledger.AccountInvoice`), not sales invoices.
In fact I should do this for any :class:`ml.ledger.Voucher`
:class:`ml.ledger.VouchersByPartner`.


A subtle problem remains: the action links to create vouchers
in the slave summary of
:class:`ml.ledger.VouchersByPartner` basically work, but 
the newly created document
is not displayed in a detail window.

`linoweb.js`: When the insert window has been called by an action link
(e.g. generated using ar.insert_button), then Lino.close_window can
return `undefined`.

`ext_renderer.py`: the optional `request` argument to
`window_action_button` and `action_call` is now an
:class:`rt.ar`, not a plain Django web request.


Unknown key 'goto_record_id' in action response
-----------------------------------------------

The :class:`lino.mixins.duplicable.Duplicate` action caused an
:ref:`ise` "Unknown key 'goto_record_id' in action response."
Fixed.

:class:`ml.debts.Budget` now also uses 
:meth:`ml.excerpts.Certifiable.get_certifiable_fields`

