======================
Thursday, June 5, 2014
======================

dos2unix
--------

I ran ``dos2unix`` on the files of :ref:`cosi`::

  $ go cosi
  $ find -name '*.py' | xargs dos2unix


MySQL server has gone away
--------------------------

:manage:`watch_tim` still sends "OperationalError (2006, 'MySQL server
has gone away')" messages.  

Oho, ist der noch immer da?  Die Erklärung (:blogref:`20140602`)
scheint mir eigentlich recht plausibel.  Ich habe soeben noch `ein
bisschen geändert
<https://github.com/lsaffre/lino-welfare/commit/d1775b072b56df882a538b02d31b3dcc90a6a2f1>`_.
Mal sehen, ob es jetzt besser wird.  Der Fehler ist nicht leicht zu
testen, weil es ja ein timeout ist.


:ref:`cosi` also in Estonia
---------------------------

An Estonian friend (Ülle) has shown her interest to try :ref:`cosi`.
So I want to set up an Estonian demo site for her.  New package
:mod:`lino_cosi.settings.est`.

A fundamental problem is the list of Estonian places.  We agree that
an accounting software should include an out-of-the-box list of cities
and villages with their zip codes.  I would say that the national post
office is more or less authority on this topic.  That's why we have
:mod:`lino.modlib.countries.fixtures.ee` which needs a file
:file:`sihtnumbrid.csv` which I used to download from Estonian post
office.  I didn't ask, but am pessimistic about getting their help for
making this database freely available.  Meanwhile they changed their
name and reorganized their web site. The new site has a `download page
<https://www.omniva.ee/ari/kiri/noudmiseni_sihtnumbrid>`_, but (1) it
doesn't work for the moment and (2) it looks as if the file structure
is going to change.  Should I wait until they manage their internal
problems, and then adapt my :mod:`lino.modlib.countries.fixtures.ee`
to the new structure?  Or is this the moment to start a project of
publishing a free table of Estonian places?  The fact that I am not
allowed to include this file with Lino causes miscellaneous problems
(besides the most visible problem that users must download it
themselves).  For example I cannot write unit tests based on this
data.  Another question is: How does this integrate with Wikipedia who
certainly is another authority?  The Estonian Wikipedia has done
`considerable work
<https://et.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eesti_k%C3%BClade_loend>`_ on this
domain. But (at least for the moment) we cannot (easily) import this
information. Should I talk with `Andres
<https://et.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kasutaja:Andres>`_ about this?  But
before talking to anybody, shouldn't I prepare something to make my
vision visible to others? Do we need something like :ref:`belref`, but
for Estonia?  To be continued.

More docs
---------

Milton's questions in `Lino Cosi app installation
<https://github.com/lsaffre/lino-cosi/issues/2>`_ motivated me to do
some more work in the documentation. Also fixed some minor (but
fatal) bugs in :mod:`lino.projects.min1`.

- :doc:`/tutorials/hello/index`
- :doc:`/dev/settings`
- :doc:`/dev/application`
- :doc:`/dev/startup`

Most content was previously in :mod:`djangosite` which I plan to merge back
into Lino some day.


