======================
Tuesday, June 10, 2014
======================

atelier
-------

The :mod:`commondata`, :mod:`commondata.ee` and :mod:`commondata.be`
projects don't have a separate :xfile:`projects_info.py` file because
I wanted to keep them as simple as possible.

Already yesterday I thought what a pity that I cannot simply run
:cmd:`ci` on them! And that they won't get included when I do :cmd:`pp
fab ci` or :cmd:`pp fab test`!

But now :ref:`atelier` can handle projects like these!  The drawback
(or in fact a new requirement which I dare to consider an improvement
after reading a question `setup.py should use if __name__ ==
'__main__', right?
<http://code.activestate.com/lists/python-distutils-sig/23211/>`_
asked 07 Apr 2014 by Asheesh Laroia in distutils-sig and answered by
Carl Meyer) is that every atelier project must now protect it's
:xfile:`setup.py` file using an ``if __name__ == '__main__':``
construct.

TODO: :cmd:`fab summary` reports the wrong description for
:mod:`commondata`. That's because the `PROJECTS` variable used by
atelier is simply a list of Python module names. Atelier then imports
these projects and uses their `__file__` attribute. This trick does
not work for namespace packages since these are defined at more than
one place.  Their `__file__` attribute is unpredictable::

  $ pywhich commondata
  /home/luc/hgwork/be/commondata/__init__.pyc

davlink
-------

:ref:`davlink` is now again with a codegears-signed `DavLink.jar'.

Release in Eupen.  Or rather "upgrade" than "release".  This was
mainly to re-get the signed version of the davlink applet. I made a
general :ref:`pull` for all repositories because it is in general
recommended to pull all projects together. Because I still don't have
a strict procedure for managing "releases".  It would be overhead to
impose a stricter procedure as long as I am the only person who does
data migrations and upgrades.  The application's version is the only
version number that is actually being used.  For example
:ref:`welfare` has been at version 1.1.13 for more than a week now,
and I have even been working on the data migration for chatelet. This
is okay as long as I have no changes in the database schema.
