=======================
Thursday, June 12, 2014
=======================


Continued on `commondata.ee`.  There was a last stupid problem, not
even related to the real problem but which blocks the demo. See next
section.


Soodi and Söödi
---------------

Two innocent small villages in the south of Estonia caused me about
one day of work. And taught me that Django's unique_together_ meta
option reduces Non-ASCII letters to their plain ASCII letter (e.g. "ö"
becomes "o"). The problem is subtle since it passes in sqlite but
fails in mysql.


.. _unique_together: https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.6/ref/models/options/#unique-together


The fixtures ``few_cities`` and ``eesti`` (both in
:mod:`lino.modlib.countries.fixtures` ) must be specified in the right
order: ``eesti`` must come first. Because it does not check whether
the place already exists. While ``few_cities`` does this test.

I finally laid down this subject in a new ticket :doc:`/tickets/109`.



EventGenerators for multiple users
----------------------------------

Worked on :doc:`/tickets/104`.

Preparation work: collect document about :class:`ml.cal.EventGenerator`
into :mod:`ml.cal`.

A first change is that the general hard-coded default value for
:attr:`ad.Site.ignore_dates_before` is no longer
`datetime.date.today() + datetime.timedelta(days=-7)` but simply
`None`.  This is a better default value. We need constant conditions
in our test databases.

Then I started to look at how Lino generates demo data. Optimized the
procedure.

TODO:

- Write a method `Client.get_coach_by_date(date, coaching_type)` which
  should cache the dates of coachings because it will be used by
  EventGenerator.
- Write a test case. Robin Dubois scheint ein guter Testfall (hat drei
  DSBE-Begleitungen).  Aber sein Vertrag wurde nicht vom richtigen
  Begleiter erstellt.
- in the demo fixture, use the `get_coach_by_date` method also to see who
  was the author of every contract

