======================
Tuesday, June 17, 2014
======================

Release to PyPI?
----------------

Before starting to work on :srcref:`docs/tickets/110` I'd like to do an
official release on PyPI of the current version of Lino,
:ref:`welfare`, :ref:`cosi` & Co.  And also :ref:`faggio`.  Before
this it would be good to do an upgrade for Roger who will soon
reactivate.

This upgrade needs a decision:
(1) convert :ref:`faggio` to use :mod:`lino.modlib.excerpts`
or (2) convert :mod:`lino.modlib.excerpts` to be optional?

The :mod:`lino.modlib.excerpts` module seems a great concept which will be of
wide use. But (1) Roger did not ask for it, (2) it is annoying for
that I must now care about database migration.

I must care about database migration because :mod:`ml.cal` and
:mod:`ml.notes` *did* convert to use :mod:`lino.modlib.excerpts`. It is a bit
suboptimal for the :ref:`faggio` users when :mod:`ml.courses` does
*not* use it.

The (2) alternative above means that I see a strategic injustice: two
modules (:mod:`ml.cal` and :mod:`ml.notes`) *force* an application
(:ref:`faggio`) to use a given new module (:mod:`lino.modlib.excerpts`). While
this is okay in the given case (for Faggio it is anyway a good thing),
this is fundamentally wrong.  I don't yet see a solution for it.  It
comes because the choice of using :mod:`lino.modlib.excerpts` is done per app
and not per application: All "printable" objects must inherit either
from :class:`lino.modlib.excerpts.Certifiable` or from
:class:`lino.mixins.printable.BasePrintable` Resolution: this
conversion can wait. It is not such a big catastrophe that
:class:`ml.courses.Topic` :class:`ml.courses.Course` and
:class:`ml.courses.Enrolment` are still printable instead of
certifiable.

But I must still fix at least one problem in :ref:`faggio` which comes
because I stopped to inject a `course` field into
:class:`ml.cal.Event`.

In fact there are more than one of these little problems in
:ref:`faggio`. And then I had several phone calls which changed my
priorities: no, I won't do an official release today. Because nobody
asked for it, and because customers are asking for other things!


        

Miscellaneous
-------------

- `'module' object has no attribute 'PendingCourseRequests'` This
  message appeared in :class:`welfare.integ.CompareRequestsTable`
  (part of :class:`welfare.integ.ActivityReport`).  And only in the
  Chatelet version. Because Chatelet replaces
  :mod:`lino_welfare.modlib.courses` by :mod:`lino.modlib.courses`.

- Excerpts should never get created manually. So I set
  :attr:`dd.Actor.allow_create` to False on
  :class:`lino.modlib.excerpts.Excerpts`.  


Social aids
-----------

Gerd and I finally reached the :mod:`welfare.aids` module. And hit
some first problems.

- Error message 
  `coercing to Unicode: need string or buffer, list found`
  came when trying to select a 
  :attr:`lino.modlib.excerpts.ExcerptType.body_template`.

- The `insert_layout` of :class:`welfare.aids.AidsByClient` was too
  minimal, the amount was missing in `detail_layout`, ...


An important point is yet to do: make the templates editable through
the web interface:

- Replace the current `EditTemplate` action by a virtual html box with
  action buttons to both the `template` and the `body_template`.

- For html templates, don't redirect to a webdav url but open a text
  editor.
