========================
Wednesday, June 18, 2014
========================

The next version for :ref:`welfare`
-----------------------------------

I started to work on some change requests :ref:`welfare` which had
been waiting because they need a database migration.  Incremented
version from '1.1.12' to '1.1.13'.

- The user request which triggered this was
  the new column :attr:`welfare.aids.AidType.board`
  (which I added only the next day).

- Moved `aids.Decider` to `boards.Board` in new module
  `lino.modlib.boards`. 

  TODO: One day I will convert the fields `signer1`,
  `signer1_function` etc fields in Welfare's `SiteConfig` intto a
  simple pointer to a `boards.Board`. But not now. Because this will
  cause some nasty changes in certain templates.

- Two new fields `start_date` and `end_date` in `boards.Board`.  These
  fields are implemented by a new mixin `dd.DatePeriod` which is
  basically taken from `pcsw.Coaching`.
  
- In `aids.Aid`, renamed field `applies_from` to `start_date` and
  `applies_until` to `end_date`. And Aid now also inherits these
  fields from `dd.DatePeriod`.

  TODO: do the same for `isip.BaseContract`.


Multilingual user documentation
-------------------------------

Running a :command:`fab mm` in :ref:`welfare` can take a very long
time.  This is because it launches sphinx-build with the `gettext`
builder who does quite some work in order to find similar
translations.  So I currently believe that this is not the
future. 

That's why I am gradually converting much content from userdocs to the
non-generated and English-only Sphinx "class reference" (i.e.
:mod:`ad` and :mod:`ml`, but also the application-specific
:mod:`welfare`).


Changed API
-----------

I think it is still okay to change the signature of
:meth:`lino.core.site.Site.str2kw` method introduced recently: I inverted the
order of the two positional arguments ``txt` and ``name``.


User management
---------------

Setting the password of a new user was not yet possible using the web
interface because the current password was empty and the
ChangePassword action dialog box did not accept an empty password
field. Computers are stupid, aren't they!

Subscriptions by User are now ordered by `calendar__name`.

:ref:`welfare` no longer automatically creates subscriptions for all
other coaching users.
