=======================
Thursday, June 19, 2014
=======================

New Site attribute `confdirs`
-----------------------------

I noticed a bug which had been living for some time: the internal list
of :xfile:`config` directories had duplicate entries.

I changed the :mod:`lino.utils.config` module to not use global
variables because I thought that this might be the reason.  It wasn't
the reason, but has the advantage of removing one pitfall: until now
it was not allowed to import this module at the global level of a
models module because importing it will fill the config dirs,
i.e. will try to import every installed `models` module.  That's why
we have the new Site attribute
:attr:`lino.core.site.Site.confdirs`

The true reason was a bug in
:meth:`lino.core.site.Site.for_each_app`.


Editing print templates
-----------------------

:class:`lino.mixins.printable.EditTemplate` did not yet manage the
problem of library templates. The local system manager had to dedide
for every library template whether it should be editable locally by
copying the file manually to the local config directory.  This is now
done in a user-friendly way through the web interface.

When using :mod:`ml.excerpts`, the `body_template` is often more
important than the main template. This template is now also editable
through the web interface: New virtual field `body_template_content`
on any excerpt.


Working on system notes
-----------------------

The :meth:`dd.Model.get_system_note_recipients` actions for
:class:`welfare.pcsw.Client` and :class:`welfare.pcsw.Coaching` gave
invalid recipient addresses for coaches with empty email
address. These are now silently ignored.


