================================
20140708 (Tuesday, 08 July 2014)
================================

Some more packaging problems. After converting the packaging process
for :ref:`eidreader` from make to fabric, there are some problems
because I did not make a dumb 1:1 conversion. For example I had
removed the `-tsa` option for my self-signed jars. Now I got the
following message:

    No -tsa or -tsacert is provided and this jar is not
    timestamped. Without a timestamp, users may not be able to validate
    this jar after the signer certificate's expiration date (2014-08-25)
    or after any future revocation date.

The `-tsa` option, as explained in `Signing JAR Files
<http://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/deployment/jar/signing.html>`_,
"generates a time stamp for the signature using the Time Stamping
Authority (TSA) identified by the URL.".

Wikipedia article about `Trusted timestamping
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trusted_timestamping>`_ explains some
generally interesting things.

If I understand well, anyone can ask Globalsign's TSA to act as TSA,
even for self-signed jars, simply by adding::

  -tsa http://timestamp.globalsign.com/scripts/timestamp.dll



But the main problem was that the clients reported ClassNotFound
errors for `EIDReader$1.class`.

The `EIDReader.java` file produces several `.class` files: the usual
`EIDReader.class`, three files (`EstEIDUtil.class`,
`PersonalFile.class` and `BelgianReader.class`) for each additional
class defined in the source file. And then two additional files
`EIDReader$1.class` and `EIDReader$2.class`. Where do these come from?
These are anonymous inner classes (as explained for example `here
<http://stackoverflow.com/questions/1075207/what-are-the-1-in-class-file>`__).

After all this I still had to learn that the ``$`` sign of the class
name can cause problem: `Inner classes not being included in jar file
<http://stackoverflow.com/questions/12023490/inner-classes-not-being-included-in-jar-file>`__.

