=====================
Friday, July 25, 2014
=====================

Einkommensbescheinigungen
-------------------------

So. Ich habe die Einkommensbescheinigungen jetzt bereit für eine
nächste Besichtigung.  Momentan haben wir (schon seit Längerem) die
Anwesenheitsbescheinigungen und (jetzt neu) alle Arten von
Einkommensbescheinigungen.  AMKs muss ich noch machen. Aber vorher
jetzt ein Commit. Und dann Übersetzungen in einem weiteren Commit.

Dies ist mein Vorschlag, um an die Sache ran zu gehen.  Die Benutzer
fragten zwar "Wieso wollt ihr das alles so kompliziert machen?", aber
unsere Antwort darauf lautet (momentan noch): "Es wird komplexer als
in TIM, weil wir dem Umstieg nutzen, um mehr als bisher in der
Datenbank festzuhalten.  Wir glauben, dass es nach der
Umgewöhnungszeit die Qualität verbessert und die Arbeit insgesamt
erleichtert."


Cannot share a pull request to ablog
------------------------------------

Continued from :blogref:`20140723`.

The explanation was that I need to fork the project on GitHub::

    $ git clone git@github.com:lsaffre/ablog.git
    $ e ablog/__init__.py  # Make my modifs
    $ git checkout -b feed_encoding
    $ git commit -m "Added encoding utf-8 to file atom.xml"
    $ git push origin feed_encoding 
    Total 0 (delta 0), reused 0 (delta 0)
    To git@github.com:lsaffre/ablog.git
     * [new branch]      feed_encoding -> feed_encoding
    
Later I made also this::
    
    $ git remote add upstream git@github.com:abakan/ablog.git
    $ git pull upstream master

(Thanks to `Git branches tutorial
<https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorial/git-branches>`_,
`stackoverflow
<http://stackoverflow.com/questions/6286571/git-fork-is-git-clone>`_
and `Collaboration on Github
<http://www.eqqon.com/index.php/Collaborative_Github_Workflow>`_)
    


Add i18n to ablog
-----------------
    
ABlog automatically generates certain strings like "Recent posts",
"Categories".  If these strings appear in English on your blog although you specified another language, then this page is for you.
    
These strings need to be translated. Ablog needs your help.
   
    
.. _extract_messages: http://babel.edgewall.org/wiki/Documentation/setup.html#extract-messages

.. _init_catalog: http://babel.edgewall.org/wiki/Documentation/setup.html#init-catalog

.. _update_catalog: http://babel.edgewall.org/wiki/Documentation/setup.html#update-catalog
    
- extract_messages_ must run each time you changed some translatable
  message texts::
    
    $ python setup.py extract_messages -o ablog/locale/sphinx.pot
    ...

  This will create a file :xfile:`ablog/locale/sphinx.pot`, the
  central messages catalog used by the different translations.

- init_catalog_ must run after extract_messages_ once for each *new* language::

    $ python setup.py init_catalog -l de -i ablog/locale/sphinx.pot -o ablog/locale/de/LC_MESSAGES/sphinx.po

  This will create a file :xfile:`ablog/locale/de/LC_MESSAGES/sphinx.po`.

- update_catalog_ must run after extract_messages_ for each existing
  language::

    $ python setup.py update_catalog -l de -i ablog/locale/sphinx.pot -o ablog/locale/de/LC_MESSAGES/sphinx.po
    

Upgrade in :ref:`gx`
--------------------
    
Including a new version number and migrator for :ref:`welfare`.
