========================
Wednesday, July 30, 2014
========================

Multiple blog postings per document
-----------------------------------

.. highlight:: bash

Ahmet made changes in ablog to support `multiple postings per document
<https://github.com/abakan/ablog/issues/4>`_ and asked me to test
them.  So I needed to merge his changes into the local copy of my fork.
The GitHub help section about `Syncing a fork
<https://help.github.com/articles/syncing-a-fork>`_ worked like a
charm for me::

    $ git fetch upstream
    remote: Counting objects: 40, done.
    remote: Compressing objects: 100% (31/31), done.
    remote: Total 40 (delta 14), reused 16 (delta 9)
    Unpacking objects: 100% (40/40), done.
    From github.com:abakan/ablog
       4819cb9..50ba0a4  master     -> upstream/master

    $ git merge upstream/master
    Updating 4819cb9..50ba0a4
    Fast-forward
     .gitignore                               |   1 +
     ablog/__init__.py                        | 362 +----------------------------
     ablog/{ablog.py => blog.py}              |  56 ++---
     ablog/post.py                            | 379 +++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
     ablog/templates/archive.html             |   2 +-
     ablog/templates/postnavy.html            |   4 +-
     ablog/templates/recentposts.html         |   2 +-
     docs/Makefile                            |   4 +-
     docs/conf.py                             |   3 +-
     docs/{i18n.rst => manual/ablog-i18n.rst} |  28 ++-
     docs/manual/multiple-posting.rst         |  31 +++
     11 files changed, 468 insertions(+), 404 deletions(-)
     rename ablog/{ablog.py => blog.py} (92%)
     create mode 100644 ablog/post.py
     rename docs/{i18n.rst => manual/ablog-i18n.rst} (71%)
     create mode 100644 docs/manual/multiple-posting.rst


Since this feature now works perfectly, there are chances that I start
to use ablog for the Lino blog, too.  But I agree, there are more
urgent things to do...


UnicodeError while writing to `data_collector_dir`
--------------------------------------------------

Next shot to try to catch that Unicode error when writing non-ascii
card data to :setting:`beid.data_collector_dir`:

Changes in :mod:`lino.modlib.beid.mixins`.

- removed one call to ``.decode('utf-8')``
- added a logger line before writing the file
- tested using ``configure_plugin('beid',
  data_collector_dir='/home/luc/tmp')``
 


Appointments today
------------------

The reception clerks in :ref:`chatelet` don't need the calendar panel,
they just want a plain list of all appointments of today.

- Extended the existing :class:`ml.cal.EventsByDay` so that it can be
  used as amenu command.

- :ref:`welfare` overrides the :attr:`dd.Table.column_names` for
  :class:`ml.cal.EventsByDay`


TODO: The table is defined in `cal`, but it appears only in the
`reception` menu.  The table has a requirement `user_groups="office
reception"`. Won't this cause problems in an application which has
`cal` but not `reception`?


Upgrade in :ref:`chat`
----------------------

Added translations to French.

Discovered that :meth:`lino_welfare.migrate.migrate_from_1_1_15` and
:meth:`lino_welfare.migrate.migrate_from_1_1_16` conflict with each
other when both are being applied in a single migration.  Opened
:doc:`/tickets/120`.

