========================
Tuesday, August 12, 2014
========================

Added new model :class:`welfare.aids.RefundPartner`, a subclass of new
:class:`welfare.pcsw.ClientContactBase` model mixin (which I moved out
of and now inherit by :class:`welfare.pcsw.ClientContact`).  Added a
slave table :class:`welfare.aids.PartnersByConfirmation` to the detail of
:class:`welfare.aids.RefundConfirmation`.

Moved field `client_contact_type` from
:class:`welfare.contacts.Company` to :class:`welfare.contacts.Partner`
and added a chooser in
:class:`welfare.pcsw.ClientContactBase`. Because also a Person can be
a client contact.

TODO: when entering data into
:class:`welfare.aids.PartnersByConfirmation` users still need to know
whether a given contact type is a company or a person. That might be
disturbing.

Added two more client contact types "Physician" and "Family doctor" in
:mod:`lino_welfare.fixtures.demo`.  Note: how should I translate
"Hausarzt"? "General Practitioner" or "Family doctor"? The `WONCA
<http://www.globalfamilydoctor.com/>`_ seems to have chosen the
former: "WONCA is an unusual, yet convenient acronym comprising the
first five initials of the World Organization of National Colleges,
Academies and Academic Associations of General Practitioners/Family
Physicians."

Updated German translations for :ref:`welfare`.

Checkin. Upgrade at :ref:`dsbe`.

More changes after evaluation with Gerd:

- Tabelle Hilfebestäitigungen pro Kunde:
  - hier fehlt die Hilfeart und die Periode.
  - Filterparameter auch Hilfeart
- "Unterschreiber" umbenennen nach "Verantwortlicher" oder
  "Entscheider"... oder "Bestätiger"
- "Einfache Bescheinigung" ersetzen durch "Einfache Hilfebestätigung"
- "Erstellen und Drucken" zugleich.
- "Bestehende Ausdrucke" (ExcerptsByOwner) jetzt als slave table mit
  summary im detail_layout einer `aids.Confirmation`.

A 3 hours phone meeting with Mathieu resulted in a new ticket
:srcref:`docs/tickets/121`.

