=======================
Sunday, August 31, 2014
=======================

Refreshing the home page
========================

In the middle of the night I found a workaround for yesterday's
problem:

The explanation is as follows: when an Ext.Window is being
instantiated, then this object is somehow "linked" to "the current DOM
element". When a `WindowAction.run()` is called from the menu, then it
will be linked to the DOM element of the menu item. And in our case it
is linked to some element which will later be replaced by new html
chunk.  For example, yesterday's problem works only for windows which
have been instantiated by a click on such a symbol.

The workaround is to add the following code to `Lino.Viewport.refresh`::

        {% for T in settings.SITE.get_admin_main_items() %}
             if (Lino.{{T.default_action.full_name()}}) {
                 Lino.{{T.default_action.full_name()}}.window = null;
             }
        {% endfor %}

That is, we delete the cached `Ext.Window` instance for those actions
that are callable from the :xfile:`admin_main.html`. 

This workaround also required us to remove the `ar` argument from the
signature of :meth:`ad.Site.get_admin_main_items`.

Not very elegant, but it works.

Checkin and update of the :ref:`demos`.

Removed `admin_item_limit` from :xfile:`admin_main.html`
========================================================

How to configure how many rows Lino should display in 
:xfile:`admin_main.html` for the tables returned by
:meth:`ad.Site.get_admin_main_items`?

Until now I had a parameter `admin_item_limit` defined as a template
variable::

    {% if not admin_item_limit %}
    {% set admin_item_limit = 5 %}
    {% endif %}

I removed this because it was not comfortable (not "the Lino way").
Configuration is now done by setting
:attr:`dd.AbstractTable.preview_limit`.


Refreshing the home page
========================

I discovered that the workaround which I found tonight doesn't always
work. E.g. for quick links. So my search had to continue.

And I found another workaround which is a little bit less hackerish
than the first one: `Lino.WindowAction.getWindow()` now calls the
cached window object's `getBox()` method and checks whether it
specifies a width of 0. If the width is 0, then we know that the
window has fallen into this strange kind of hiddenness and that we
need to instantiate a new one.

Checkin and update of the online :ref:`demos`.
