=========================
Monday, September 1, 2014
=========================



I started to introduce the requested modifications in French
translations.  This revealed that ``fab mm`` has become really too
slow for the :ref:`welfare` userdocs. 

It is clear that my system of building multilingual docs using
Sphinx's gettext builder is deprecated, I started to convert them to
monolingual docs.

Worked on :ref:`noi`
====================

I added :mod:`ml.tickets` to :ref:`noi` and started to see more
clearly a concrete usage for that application: a ticketing management
system to manage our own tickets. Because the current system (within
the documentation using Sphinx) turns out to be not enough. I also
abandon the idea of doing this in Presto and of copying exactly the
database structure I have in TIM.

One important new thing in :ref:`noi` is the fact that it publishes
the whole database as is. Anonymous requests may not modify anything,
but they can see everything.  

- Added new method `lino.core.site.Site.get_default_required`, and :ref:`noi`
  overrides this to make all tables visible for everybody.  

- Discovered that readonly user profiles don't work (they are not
  readonly).


Chatelet
========

Continued heavily on :srcref:`docs/tickets/121`.

Refreshing the home page
========================

Hey, I discovered *en passant* why refreshing the home page caused
some windows to become invisible! Here is the code of the onReady
function in our main page::

    Lino.viewport = new Lino.Viewport( { 
      items: { 
        "bbar": { "items": Lino.status_bar, "xtype": "toolbar" }, 
        "tbar": Lino.main_menu, 
        "layout": "fit", 
        "items": { 
          "items": { 
            "autoScroll": true, 
            "html": "...", 
            "xtype": "container", 
            "id": "dashboard" 
          }, 
          "region": "center", 
          "layout": "fit", 
          "xtype": "container", 
          "id": "main_area" 
        } 
      } 
    });

Do you see? It's not "main_area" but "dashboard" whose html I must
update!
