==========================
Tuesday, September 2, 2014
==========================

Chatelet
========

Continued on :srcref:`docs/tickets/121`.

- Enlevé le mode sommaire pour "Composition de ménage" (the chatelet
  version of :ref:`welfare` patches
  :attr:`dd.AbstractTable.slave_grid_format` of
  :class:`ml.households.SiblingsByPerson` to ``"grid"``.

- :class:`ml.households.SiblingsByPerson` no longer ignores
  `Member.end_date` when looking for the active household. See test
  case below.

- activated the "Client projects" (Demandes d'intervention) app for
  :ref:`chat`.

- Removed the different specific UploadAreas in :ref:`welfare`. Only
  one area (as in the standard modlib app).

- New model :class:`welfare.jobs.Status`. New field
  :attr:`jobs.Experience.status` is a nullable ForeignKey to it.  New
  field :attr:`jobs.Experience.is_training`.  

- New field :attr:`jobs.Experience.regime`, a ForeignKey to
  :class:`welfare.jobs.Regime`.


Test case : a person with multiple household memberships
--------------------------------------------------------

When a person has multiple household memberships, but only one of them
has no end_date, `SiblingsByPerson` failed to determine the one and
only current household. Now it works:


>>> import os
>>> os.environ['DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE'] = 'lino.projects.docs.settings.demo' 
>>> from lino.runtime import *
>>> Person = contacts.Person
>>> Member = households.Member
>>> Member.objects.filter(end_date__isnull=False)
[Member #5 (u'Mr Paul Frisch (Head of household)'), Member #11 (u'Mr Albert Adam (Head of household)'), Member #17 (u'Mr Lars Braun (Head of household)'), Member #23 (u'Mr Ilja Adam (Head of household)')]

>>> p = Person.objects.get(first_name="Lars", last_name="Braun")
>>> Member.objects.filter(person=p).count()
2
>>> rt.show(households.MembersByPerson, master_instance=p)
=========================== =================== ========= ============ ==========
 Household                   Role                Primary   Start date   End date
--------------------------- ------------------- --------- ------------ ----------
 Lars & Melba Braun-Frisch   Head of household   No
 Lars & Pascale Braun-Adam   Head of household   No                     3/4/02
=========================== =================== ========= ============ ==========
<BLANKLINE>

>>> SiblingsByPerson = households.SiblingsByPerson
>>> rt.show(SiblingsByPerson, p)
================== =================== ============ ==========
 Person             Role                Start date   End date
------------------ ------------------- ------------ ----------
 Mr Lars Braun      Head of household
 Mrs Melba Frisch   Partner
================== =================== ============ ==========
<BLANKLINE>



Miscellaneous
=============

Fixed a bug in :ref:`faggio` which caused "Unknown element
u'lists.MembersByPerson' referred in layout <MyPersonDetail on
contacts.Persons>."


The :attr:`ml.cal.TakeEvent` action did not always work as
expected:

- Basically you can now take *any* event, even if it is not *assigned*
  to you.

- When answering to a callback, `linoweb.js` did not set the
  subst_user. Now it does.

- I discovered why anonymous users in :ref:`noi` were allowed to edit
  things: simply because the "Anonymous" user profile created by the
  default :meth:`lino.core.site.Site.setup_choicelists` was not readonly. I
  changed that to `self.user_model is not None` which means that on a
  site without user management it is False.  The default Anonymous
  profile now also has UserLevel "user" for all groups.

- Fixed a bug which caused e.g. :class:`ml.ledger.Situation` to have a
  "save" button (:class:`dd.SubmitDetail`).

- Fixed a bug which caused e.g. an :ref:`ise` "'CreateCoachingVisit'
  object has no attribute 'get_choices_text'" when trying to select a
  user in the combobox of the parameter window of
  :class:`welfare.reception.CreateCoachingVisit`.
