=========================
Thursday, October 2, 2014
=========================

Continued on ticket :doc:`/tickets/122`.

The big new thing today is that I added "templating" to
:class:`welfare.aids.AidType`.  This was needed because the first
approach was too simplistic.  I also finally started to write test
cases in a new tested document :ref:`welfare.tested.aids`.  It was
quite some work to generate demo data for these tests.

.. note:: 

  Ist dieses Dokument (:ref:`welfare.tested.aids`) verständlich?  Wenn
  ja, dann wäre das ein schönes Beispiel dafür, dass wir nicht alle
  Dokumentation in einem Wiki schreiben sollten. Denn wenn du so was
  in einem Wiki aktuell halten willst, wünsche ich viel Spaß...

  Ich bin aber noch unschlüssig, was die Sprache betrifft. Ich habe
  das Gefühl, dass es in Deutsch sein muss, wenn es gelesen werden
  soll.

Discovered a bug: :class:`dd.BabelTextField` fields did not expand
into their language variants in a layout.  This was due to the fact
that the class was defined twice-- once in :ref:`north` and once in
:mod:`lino.core.fields`.  I chose a drastic solution: move these
classes out of :mod:`north` back into Lino. This makes north
(definitively) useless on iths own.

The :mod:`welfare.aids` module now install its menu commands under
:mod:`welfare.pcsw`, no longer under :mod:`ml.reception`.

Started to move German pages from `docs/de` or :ref:`welfare` to a
separate tree `docs_de/` because they pollute the global keyword
index.  To support multiple document trees per project, I added new
project setting :attr:`env.doc_trees <atelier.fablib.env.doc_trees>`.
