=======================
Monday, October 6, 2014
=======================

Last fiddlings on ticket :srcref:`docs/tickets/122`.

The :class:`welfare.pcsw.Client` model had an action button in its
toolbar which opened the :class:`ml.excerpts.ExcerptsByOwner` slave
table.  This button was disturbing because it shows only the excerpts
which are directly owned (like "CV" and "eID content") and is
functionally represented by the :class:`ml.excerpts.ExcerptsByProject`
panel in the "History" tab.

Solution: Lino no longer adds this button automtically. If you want to
make the excerpt history visible from a model, add yourself your
preferred variant of this action.

The :class:`ml.excerpts.ExcerptsByProject` table now inherits from
:class:`ml.excerpts.ExcerptsByOwner` and thus gets its
`get_slave_summary` and `slave_grid_format`.  Optimized this
`get_slave_summary` to use Django's :func:`naturaltime` function and
to display a more intuitive text for every link.  

The :attr:`ml.excerpts.Certifiable.printed` field now also uses
Django's :func:`naturaltime` function.

`git pull` in Eupen.


Editing document template of an excerpt
=======================================

The `edit_template` action didn't yet work correctly in cases with
more than one template group: it considered only the first group.
Result was that it told me that it must make a copy of the file into
the local config directory, although such a copy already existed. The
explanation was that it existed in `config/excerpts` and not in
`config/Confirmation`.

It took me already quite some time to find the explanation:

- The :func:`rt.find_config_file` and
  :func:`rt.find_template_config_files` functions are now accessible via
  :mod:`lino.rt`.

- I started to change the :manage:`diag` command: it no longer writes a
  summary of the database content but a summary of local settings and
  environment.

Then I made some subtle changes the the `EditTemplate` action in order
to make it testable and write a test case:

- It is now viewable even if :attr:`lino.core.site_def.Site.use_java` is False.

May 22nd 2014
=============

Oops, the production server had :attr:`lino.core.site_def.Site.the_demo_date`
non-empty.  And the users noticed this at a place where it took me at
least 15 minutes to understand that this was the only reason.
