========================
Monday, October 20, 2014
========================

Still working on :doc:`/tickets/136`

Bestätigung "Kleiderkammer" fertig
----------------------------------

I found a last bug (in the fixture which generates demo data) which
caused example of the :xfile:`clothing_bank.body.html` for
:ref:`paulfrisch` in the `Beispiele
<http://de.welfare.lino-framework.org/excerpts.html#beispiele>`__
section of the German user manual to be wrong.  Now I finally dare to
link to it: `here it is
<http://de.welfare.lino-framework.org/dl/excerpts/aids.SimpleConfirmation-13.pdf>`_!

Vocabulary:

- Rückerstattung - Refund
- Kostenübernahme - Cost transfer
- Clothing costs transfer - Kostenübernahme Kleidung

Recipient of an excerpt
-----------------------

However there were still some "details" to fix.  For example the
following item turned out to be rather tricky:

-   Wenn kein Empfänger angegeben ist, trotzdem den entsprechenden Platz
    vorsehen

The :xfile:`excerpts/Default.odt` template is designed to be
overridden by local site administrators in order to match their letter
paper. To minimize their configuration work, the template should work
for any type of excerpt, not only for confirmations.

To solve this, I removed the `get_print_recipient` method from
:class:`dd.Model`, added a new field
:attr:`ml.excerpts.ExcerptType.print_recipient` and replaced in
:xfile:`excerpts/Default.odt` the test ``do text if
obj.get_print_recipient()`` by ``do text if
this.excerpt_type.print_recipient)``.  This was also inspired by
:ref:`joe`\ 's suggestions for ticket :doc:`/tickets/134`: developers
who don't use the :mod:`ml.excerpts` module should not be bothered
with a method like `get_print_recipient` in Lino's :class:`dd.Model`
class.

And I discovered that it was no longer possible to specify a recipient
for a presence certificate.  So :class:`ml.excerpts.Excerpt` now is a
:class:`ml.contacts.ContactRelated` again. 

:ref:`mustconfig` : 
Adapt local :xfile:`excerpts/Default.odt`
template: replace the condition 
``do text if obj.get_print_recipient()`` 
by 
``do text if this.excerpt_type.print_recipient)``.

:ref:`mustmig` : 
New field :attr:`ml.excerpts.ExcerptType.print_recipient`.
New fields in :class:`ml.excerpts.Excerpt` because it now is a
:class:`ml.contacts.ContactRelated` again. 



Two changes in :mod:`atelier`
------------------------------

The `doc_trees` parameter is no longer in :xfile:`fabfile.py` but in
the project's main module.  This was necessary in order to load also
non-standard doc trees into the `intersphinx_mapping`.

`intersphinx_url` changed to `intersphinx_urls` and is now expected to
be a dict with one URL for every name in `doc_trees`.
