==========================
Thursday, October 23, 2014
==========================

Recipient of an excerpt
=======================

Continued on ticket :doc:`/tickets/136`.

Finished the following item:

#.  :attr:`cvs_emitted <welfare.pcsw.Client.cvs_emitted>` vom Reiter
    "Verschiedene" in den Reiter "Lebenslauf" verschieben. Ganz unten.

This needed another little change :

- When there is no content, the function of a shortcut field
  (:class:`ml.excerpts.Shortcuts`) now returns an empty `<DIV>` tag.
  Otherwise the layout manager failed in these cases.

Then once more back to the following item:

#.  Wenn kein Empfänger angegeben ist, trotzdem den entsprechenden Platz
    vorsehen

The basic system was already okay, but we also want a border around
the address.  This caused some fiddling in
:xfile:`excerpts/Default.odt`.  

It seems that `appy.pod` does not look into frames, so I use a simple
paragraph with border.  A trick which in turn needed a new positional
argument `min_height` to :meth:`get_address_html
<ml.excerpts.Excerpt.get_address_html>`.

Adapted the :xfile:`excerpts/Default.odt` template in :ref:`lino`.


Miscellaneous changes while working on the above:

- Removed the field `contact_role` from layouts of
  :mod:`ml.excerpts.Excerpt` (i.e. it is no longer visible).  

  TODO: Maybe we should split `ContactRelated` into `Recipient` and
  `Represented`.

- :mod:`welfare.aids` : When representing a Granting or a Confirmation
  as a string, the name of the aid type is now at the *beginning*. For
  example "22.05.14/EiEi/116/1" becomes "EiEi/22.05.14/116/1".

- Changed `verbose_name` of :class:`ml.cal.Guest` from "Guest" to
  "Presence".  Because a presence is not a guest.

- As a result of :doc:`/tickets/134`, the `Addressable` mixin is no
  longer in :mod:`lino.dd`. Application code must import it directly
  from its true place :mod:`lino.utils.addressable`.  Renamed its
  `address_lines` method to :meth:`get_address_lines
  <lino.utils.addressable.Addressable.get_address_lines>`.  Adapted
  documentation and test cases.

- Removed the ``lino.modlib.partners`` module because it had become
  obsolete and was never used.

- Removed :file:`/docs/about/license.rst` since these considerations
  are now obsolete.



Directory structure in :ref:`cosi`
==================================

I noticed that the `projects` directory structure in :ref:`cosi` was
very obsolete.  Since :ref:`mw` will soon dive into this, I decided to
adapt it to the modern style.


Date and time fields in :mod:`ml.export_excel`
==============================================

:ref:`joe` contributed a patch to his :mod:`ml.export_excel` app.  I
installed it via the command line and updated :doc:`/dev/git` because
I want to learn.  

Adapted the copyright headers in the files of this app, adding Joe's
name.

Wrote a new test case :ref:`lino.tested.min1` which exports a table
with dates.  (Not sure whether this covers the problem though.)
