===========================
Saturday, November 29, 2014
===========================


Worked on :ticket:`19`.

- :ref:`mustmig` : Added new field :attr:`welfare.aids.AidType.is_urgent`
- Added a new method :meth:`welfare.aids.Confirmation.get_urgent_granting`.
- Added code in :xfile:`medical_refund.body.html` so that the
  additional page gets added only when an urgent granting exists.
- There can now be more than one additional page in
  :xfile:`medical_refund.body.html`: one for the 
  :attr:`doctor <welfare.aids.RefundConfirmation.doctor>`
  and one for the
  :attr:`pharmacy <welfare.aids.RefundConfirmation.pharmacy>`.
- The demo fixture :mod:`lino_welfare.modlib.aids.fixtures.demo` now
  generates use cases for this.  That is, for some of the AMK
  grantings it generates an additional DMH granting.


Secondary changes:

- :class:`welfare.aids.Granting` now has a custom 
  manager with a method `get_by_aidtype()` which
  is being used by both
  :meth:`welfare.isip.ContractBase.get_aid_type` and
  :meth:`welfare.aids.Confirmation.get_urgent_granting`.
  :class:`welfare.isip.Contract` no longer has a `get_grantings` method.

Other changes *en passant*:

- Minor changes in :ref:`welfare.tested.general`.

- :mod:`atelier.fablib` almost destroyed the README files of
  `commondata <https://github.com/lsaffre/commondata>`_ and its
  children. These are projects with only one page of documentation,
  i.e. without a tree of Sphinx docs. So their README file contains
  that single page and is manually written. And `setup.py` loads
  `long_description` from that file.

TODO (needs user feedback)

- The text of the additional page generated in
  :xfile:`medical_refund.body.html` needs to be adapted for when it is
  running on the pharmacy.
