=====================================
20141204 (Thursday, 04 December 2014)
=====================================

Documentation on readthedocs is obsolete
========================================

I noticed that there is a very old version of the Lino docs at
`readthedocs.org <http://lino.readthedocs.org/en/latest/>`_, which is
of course a bad thing because people start to follow tutorials and
invest their time just to discover that they have been reading
obsolete documentation.

So I started to try to solve it.  The build on RTD fails because it
does not find the `objects.inv` files of other projects (atelier,
djangosite, north...) . So I started to register these as well.

But already the `build
<https://readthedocs.org/builds/atelier/1918649/>`_ for atelier shows
two warnings::

  /var/build/user_builds/atelier/checkouts/latest/docs/index.rst:24: WARNING: toctree contains reference to nonexisting document u'api/atelier'
  WARNING: html_static_path entry u'/var/build/user_builds/atelier/checkouts/latest/docs/.static' does not exist

Yes, that's because I run :cmd:`fab api` before running Sphinx in
order to generate the pages below `docs/api`. It seems that RTD has no
possibility to configure a shell command to run before running Sphinx.
And they are right. My method of manually issuing `fab api` is a bit
old-fashioned. I should somehow automatize this.


This made me discover 
`sphinx.ext.autosummary
<http://sphinx-doc.org/latest/ext/autosummary.html>`_,
introduced by firegurafiku on `stackoverflow <http://stackoverflow.com/questions/2701998/sphinx-autodoc-is-not-automatic-enough>`_.


Converted the :mod:`atelier` api docs to this new system.
Seems cool!
Added a condition to the :cmd:`fab api` command so that it does
nothing when there is no `docs/api` directory.

Released version 0.0.4 of :mod:`atelier` (simply :cmd:`fab release`)
because I believed that RTD cannot work on a development version.

Added a `requirements.txt` file and checked the `Use virtualenv`
option in :menuselection` Admin --> Advanced Settings`.

Next problem was:: 

    Exception occurred:
      File "/home/docs/checkouts/readthedocs.org/user_builds/atelier/envs/latest/local/lib/python2.7/site-packages/atelier-0.0.4-py2.7.egg/atelier/sphinxconf/base.py", line 257, in command_parse
        signode += addnodes.literal_strong(sig, sig)
    AttributeError: 'module' object has no attribute 'literal_strong'

This is because I use a node `literal_strong` which has been added
in `Sphinx 1.3 <http://sphinx-doc.org/latest/changes.html>`_.
That version of Sphinx is not yet released and thus not available on RTF.
So I use now `literal_emphasis` instead of `literal_strong`.

Got it working at least for `atelier
<http://atelier.readthedocs.org/en/latest/>`_ .  That's enough for
this time.


Using milestones in Trac
========================

I am learning how to organize my work using Trac.  This is an
important step for Lino.  Started a new document `/community/team`
(which meanwhile moved to :doc:`/team/trac`).

For :ref:`weleup` we have one big project which we call
"Sozialsekretariat".  The project has already seen quite some
releases, demonstrations, discussions...  

And yesterday we had a phone session where :ref:`gx` forwarded some
problem reported by their users. These problems are not part of the
"Sozialsekretariat" project but should get solved ASAP. That is, with
the next :term:`upgrade`.

This example shows us that we must create one "milestone" in
:term:`trac` for every :term:`upgrade`.  Which means that I must
rename the current milestone "Sozialsekretariat 1.0" to something like
"gx-2014-12".

*Naming milestones* is another discussion topic.  We cannot use
release numbers since every :term:`upgrade` needs a milestone and we
have more than one upgrades before we do a release.

Another topic of discussion is: theroetically we should create one
trac ticket for every reported problem. But in this case I created a
"grouped" ticket: :ticket:`23`.


Tickets
=======

:ref:`gx` reported some more quick problems:
   
- Ausdruck AMK : Unterzeichner steht hinter den Anlagen
- Ausdruck AMK : "für den Zeitraum <NIX> Anrecht auf Übernahme
  folgende..."
- NB: auch im Ausdruck EiEi fehlt die Periode (z.B. Auszug 974)

Which I registered as three tickets:

- :ticket:`30`
- :ticket:`29`
- :ticket:`28`


Since I considered that table with orphaned controllables should be
`lino.OrphanedControllables` and not e.g.
`system.OrphanedControllables`, I stumbled again over
:srcref:`docs/tickets/134`. And made a rather heavy step (considering that
there are more urgent things to do): :mod:`lino.dd` no longer imports
anything from :mod:`lino.mixins`. :ref:`joe` and :ref:`xmj` and will
like it. And I agree that they were right at least for this part of
:mod:`dd`.


The body templates of aids confirmations use a context variable
`{{when}}` which contains the covered period. But this context
variable was not defined.


