========================
Friday, December 5, 2014
========================

My decision where to place our new table `OrphanedControllables`
(combined with our ticket :doc:`/tickets/134`) took some more time and
caused some avalanches.

It is now called "Stale Controllables" (yet to translate).

:ref:`north` has passed away! Requiescat in pace! Everything that was
in North is now integrated into Lino.

.. currentmodule:: lino.mixins.babel

Moved :class:`BabelNamed`, :class:`LanguageField`,
:class:`BabelCharField` and :class:`BabelTextField` to a new package
:mod:`lino.utils.mldbc`.

`Controllable` is no longer in :mod:`lino.modlib.mixins` but in a new
module :mod:`lino.modlib.contenttypes` (which extends
`django.contrib.contenttypes`.  `system.HelpText` is now
`contenttypes.HelpText`.

:ref:`apichange`: Applications who yield `django.contrib.contenttypes`
in their :meth:`ad.Site.get_installed_apps` should replace this by
`lino.modlib.contenttypes`.

There are at least two problems with the new
:mod:`lino.modlib.contenttypes` module:

- we don't have Django's translation strings for
  `django.contrib.contenttypes`.  Extending a non-Lino pure Django app
  is maybe a bit hackerish.

- The Django trick of testing `if M._meta.installed` does not work as
  expected for models whose plugin has been overridden. So Lino
  applications should avoid to use this and should use
  :meth:`dd.Site.is_installed` instead.

Checkin at 16:10 because the test suite passes. But I think that I am
also going to merge :ref:`site` into Lino this weekend.
