=========================
Tuesday, December 9, 2014
=========================

Keep change records when partner gets deleted?
==============================================

Working on :ticket:`32`.  After one night of sleep I understood that
we cannot simply allow cascaded delete for change records.  The goal
of :class:`lino.modlib.changes` is to keep track of changes and to
*not* forget about them. Even if this leads to stale generic foreign
keys. OTOH we cannot forbit to delete a (watched) database object just
because it has changes recorded.

.. currentmodule:: lino.core.models

So I added a new attribute :attr:`Model.allow_stale_generic_foreignkey`.

:attr:`Model.allow_cascaded_delete`


View permissions in Lino Welfare
================================

Fixed :ticket:`25` (Tabelle "Benutzer und Klienten" in Startseite nur
für DSBE-Benutzer anzeigen) which was seemingly just an analysis
mistake.



Changes in printout of a debts consultation budget
==================================================

Continued to work on :ticket:`27` (Änderungen Ausdruck Budget).

Certain strings were hard-coded German until now. Now they are
internationalized:

- Entered data - Erfasste Daten
- Summary - Zusammenfassung

- Changed the label of field `debts.Entry.bailiff` from "Debt
  collection agency" to "Debt collector" (Eintreiber). This field
  points to an external partner who either a "Debt collecting company"
  (Inkasso-Unternehmen) or a "Bailiff" (Gerichtsvollzieher).

- The BailiffDebtsByBudget table is labelled "Bailiff Debts". This
  must translate to "Schulden (Eintreiber)"

- Renseignements généraux --> General information
- Situation financière --> Financial situation

- There are no `message_extractors` for `.odt` files. This means that
  when I use a translatable string in an `.odt` template, I must also
  use it somewhere else so that :command:`fab mm` finds it.

- Somebody has translated "Summary" by "Kurzbeschreibung". It must be
  "Zusammenfassung".

- 'Nom du médiateur de dettes' --> 'Name of debts mediator'


The bigger challenge in this ticket is this user request:

    Tabelle "Guthaben, Schulden, Verbindlichkeit" Spalte
    "Gerichtsvollzieher" weg und nur die Schulden ohne
    bailiff. Darunter pro Schuldeneintreiber eine ebensolche Tabelle
    mit dem Schuldeneintreiber als Überschrift und den gleichen
    Kolonnen.

The overall structure of a printout is::

    Financial situation - Finanzielle Situation
    - General information - Allgemeine Auskünfte
    - Entered data - Erfasste Daten
      (one section for every AccountGroup for which there is at least one entry
    - Summary - Zusammenfassung
      - debts.ResultByBudget
      - debts.DebtsByBudget
      - debts.BailiffDebtsByBudget
      - debts.DistByBudget
    - Conclusion - Schlussfolgerung
    
The longest section, "Entered data" is currently generated by doing
one subsection for every `AccountGroup` for which there is at least
one entry.  A part of this document logic is defined in the document
template
(:file:`lino_welfare/modlib/debts/config/debts/Budget/Default.odt`)
where we have appy.pod statements like::

  do section for group in self.account_groups('IEALC')

or::

  do text
  from table(self.entries_by_group(group))

The user request means that we no longer have simply one section per
account group. For liabilities we must potentially generate a variable
unmber of sections.

So we have to rethink the rather filigrane implementation
of the printout and the preview of a `debts.Budget`. 

To refresh my knowledge about accounting truths, I reviewed the
docstring of :mod:`lino.modlib.accounts.utils`.  This caused an
optimization *en passant*: it is now possible to specify
`column_names` on a :class:`lino.core.choicelists.ChoiceList` as a
simple string.  Added two columns "D/C" and "Sheet" to
`accounts.AccountTypes`.

Continued :doc:`tomorrow <1210>`.
