=========================
Monday, December 15, 2014
=========================

Motivated by Mahmoud from Egypt, I invested some time this week-end to
make the Lino :doc:`/dev/index` readable (:ticket:`36`).  I am still
far from being satisfied, but it's now much better than 2 days ago. At
least the "Getting started" section (5 chapters) should me more or
less comprehensible.

And now I finally have time to continue to work for :ref:`welcht`.  The
biggest news is that I added a new module
:mod:`lino_welfare.modlib.active_job_search` :ticket:`43`. This module
is not visible in Eupen. It also solves :ticket:`21` (Garde d'enfant).

Vocabulary:

===================== ============================
Active Job Search     Recherche active d'emploi
Proof of search       Preuve de recherche   
Spontaneous           Spontanée
Response to offer     Réponse à une offre
Geographic area       Zone géographique
Child custody         Garde d'enfant
===================== ============================

And another vocabulary problem is solved: I changed the `verbose_name
<lino.core.plugin.Plugin.verbose_name>` of
:mod:`lino_welfare.modlib.jobs` from `_("Art.60§7")` to `_("Job
supply")`.  Here is why:

Mathieu demande de renommer l'onglet "Art 60§7" en "Mise à
l’emploi". Car une mise à l'emploi n'est pas toujours dans le cadre de
l'article 60§7, elle peut également être un article 61.  Donc il y a
un module "Mise à l'emploi", et chaque projet individuel s'appelle
également une "Mise à l'emploi".  Par contre les Eupenois ont
clairement dit qu'un `jobs.Contract` s'appelle "Art.-60§7-Konvention"
et l'onglet doit s'appeler "Art.60§7".  Le seul problème pour dans
tout ça: comment dire "Mise à l'emploi" en anglais?  Qui a raison?
Surf... Job creation program = Arbeitsbeschaffungsmaßnahme...  Okay,
let's do like this: the module is called "Job supply", and a
`jobs.Contract` is called a "Job supply contract".




