==========================
Tuesday, December 16, 2014
==========================


.. currentmodule:: lino.modlib.polls.models

I started to work on :ticket:`44`. Seems easier than expected.  It is
clear that :mod:`lino.modlib.polls` is still very simplistic. Should
questions be numbered? Yes they should. Added new field
:attr:`Question.number`.

I started to think that we need another model :class:`Section` instead
of the `is_heading` checkbox. But what about simple polls with just
one section? It would be a pity to have a QuestionsByPoll with only
one line for these polls. Maybe rather "background sections" as in
Writer.

The :class:`AnswersByResponse` table becomes even more virtual since
it adds rows for these background sections.

I started to move documentation content back from the narrative API to
the generated API. (Because the maintenance of a narrative API is
utopic, because :mod:`lino.dd` and :mod:`lino.rt` are not everybody's
taste, because...)

Mahmoud reported several problems in
:doc:`/tutorials/polls/mysite/index`, which I updated.  For example
the `input_mask_test` was not the right thing to show in a beginner's
tutorial. I moved it on its own tutorial page
:doc:`/tutorials/input_mask/index`.

He also reported that the :file:`requirements.txt` is confusing.  I
read Donald Stufft's article `setup.py vs requirements.txt
<https://caremad.io/2013/07/setup-vs-requirement/>` and then decided
that indeed this file is useless for Lino.  Another useless file was
:file:`genapidoc.py` which, by the way, was 11 years old.
