===========================
Thursday, December 18, 2014
===========================


TypeError: detail_handler is undefined
======================================

Wow, we had a subtle bug (:ticket:`34`), which took me several hours:
when Alicia or Hubert created a `notes.Note`, then they had strange
phenomens happening: Lino failed to close the detail window, asked
whether they want to save altough there were no changes, together with
a Javascript run-time error "TypeError: detail_handler is undefined".

This came because `notes.Notes` was (1) visible only to admin and (2)
used as the model's default table.  

Background: When creating a row, :class:`CreateRow
<lino.core.actions.CreateRow>` (or to be more precise,
:class:`CreateRow <lino.core.actions.SubmitInsert>` which inherits
from it) call :meth:`ar.goto_instance
<lino.core.requests.ActorRequest.goto_instance>` in order to display
the newly created row.  And :meth:`ar.goto_instance
<lino.core.requests.ActorRequest.goto_instance>` needs the model's
default table to specify the detail handler.  You might ask why it
doesn't simply take the detail handler defined on the table where it
was called. Good question, but we'll dive into this another time. I
think it is because we want it to work transparently also in
situations where the calling table is not known...

- First of all, the detail of a Note should be visible to everybody,
  not only to Admin. But the table of *all* notes, available via
  :menuselection:`Explorer --> Office --> Notes` should remain
  admin-only. Until now we used `notes.Notes` for this command.  Since
  there is no other candidate for the default table, we define a new
  table `notes.AllNotes` with `user_level=admin` and use this table
  for the Explorer menu command.  And `notes.Notes` remains there as
  the mother of all notes tables, but not directly used.

- And secondly, *if we would* have wanted an admin-only detail, that's
  not a reason for Lino to produce such strange behaviour.
  :meth:`ar.goto_instance
  <lino.core.requests.ActorRequest.goto_instance>` must test whether
  the `detail_action` has view permission before demanding to use it.
  This test is actually done in the object's :meth:`get_detail_action
  <lino.core.model.Model.get_detail_action>` method.

- And thirdly, I defined a new table :class:`about.DetailLayouts
  <lino.modlib.about.models.DetailLayouts>` and added a section "List
  of detail layouts" to :ref:`welfare.tested.general` in to make these
  subtleties visible.


Miscellaneous
=============

- Updated the docs for :manage:`initdb`

- Added new application setting :attr:`keep_erroneous_cache_files
  <lino.core.site_def.Site.keep_erroneous_cache_files>`. Some time ago
  I had commented out the call to ``os.remove`` because I had that
  rather rare situation of wanting to see the partly generated chache
  file, **and I forgot to reactivate that line of code** after having
  fixed the problem.

  Now I had this :message:`TypeError: Lino.main_menu is undefined` again
  in my Javascript console, and I remember that we had this message in
  a beginner session with :ref:`sw`. Steve, so here is the reason for
  that irritating behaviour.

- Added a new role :rst:role:`message` for marking up the message when
  writing text as the previous paragraph.  (I thought it would be easy
  to have this message then also appear in the main documentation
  index so that a future victim of this problem has more chances to
  find the solution. But after some trying I gave up for this time.)



