===================================
20141222 (Monday, 22 December 2014)
===================================

Releases
========

Inspired by Daniel Greenfield's post about `setup.py tricks
<http://www.pydanny.com/python-dot-py-tricks.html>`_, I enhanced my
:cmd:`fab release` to also do `git tag`.  Until now I have never
(seriously) used revision tags in my repos because I have never been
in a situation where I would have needed them.  But it is probable
that we will soon need them as Lino is growing.

While I was there: the :cmd:`fab release` command now also reminds me
of the things to check before a release, and especiallay it now
communicates with PyPI and displays information about the last
official release.

Released :mod:`atelier` 0.0.6 with above changes, shortly followed by
0.0.7.

In :mod:`atelier`: renamed `fab docs` to `fab md`, 
renamed `fab pub` to :cmd:`fab pd`.

Developers guide
================

I noticed that Lino 1.6.16 was *not* released on :blogref:`20141214`.
Released it now.

This means that the "Telling your Lino version" section of the
:ref:`lino.dev.install` has not been working.  

Which reminded me an old wish: I wrote a new method
:meth:`shell_block
<atelier.sphinxconf.insert_input.Py2rstDirective.shell_block>` and
made use of it.

And I slightly changed the output of :mod:`lino.hello`: it no longer
starts with "This is yet another Lino site" (because having Lino
installed does not yet mean that you have a Lino
site). :meth:`lino.core.site_def.Site.using_text` instead of
:meth:`lino.core.site_def.Site.welcome_text`.

Continued to move docstrings back from :mod:`lino.ad` to the source
code.

