====================================
20141223 (Tuesday, 23 December 2014)
====================================

I worked even more at the developer's documentation. This time
especially the API.

Note how this decision might seem insane at first: I have at least
four customer projects waiting with a concrete, well-known list of
tasks to be done, and customers ready to pay for it (mj, gx, df,
üü). :ref:`cosi` is almost ready for market, and two hosters are
waiting to get the last 5% done.  And still I decide to start yet
another project which promises to take at last several more workdays
and for which there is nobody who asked me to do it, and nobody will
ever pay me for doing it.  I do this because there is no reason to
panic. The only way to get out of this deadlock is to find other
developers who love Lino. And in 2014 I learned that the primary
reason for other developers to turn away after some hours of interest
is some stupid problem they encounter with the documentation or the
"internal beauty" of the code.  So I said to myself that my customers
need to wait anyway, and that the whole Lino project makes no sense if
I remain the only developer.  That's why decided to tidy up
documentation during the next workdays.  Here is what I did:

- My concrete aim was to get the docs to build without warnings
  (i.e. with the `env.tolerate_sphinx_warnings = True` in Lino's
  :xfile:`fabfile.py`). That's done now.

- Lots of content restructuring.

- Also some internal changes to make the code more pythonic.

- In :mod:`atelier`, renamed `fab md` ("make docs") to :cmd:`fab bd`.
  Added `blog/2013` to the list of excluded documents (which are not
  visible on the web page, but their `.rst` source files remain in the
  repo.

- Wrote and posted another patch for Sphinx: `autodoc warns without
  giving the source file name
  <https://bitbucket.org/birkenfeld/sphinx/issue/1656/autodoc-warns-without-giving-the-source>`_

- The whole :srcref:`docs/tickets` tree is no longer included into the
  build. 
